WOW! This is mouth watering delicious!**Line the pan with a LOT of foil** You will have a honey of a mess if you don't.I used brown sugar instead of the corn syrup. Cut the recipe in 1/2 or you will have a ton of glaze. I used a spiral 17 lb. ham & still had glaze eventhough I cut the recipe in 1/2.. Can't go wrong with this recipe. Just use plenty of FOIL!!!!!!!
We made this for Christmas.  Very good Turned out great!  We put the ham & glaze in an oven bag and just flipped the bag every 15-20min instead of basting.
1/3 cup butter, 1/2 cup brown sugar, 1/4 cup honey  baby carrots underneath , crock pot, lift lid and baste often, stud ham with cloves
I'm not the biggest ham fan- but it was great!  It was a big holiday hit with my whole family. I added the juice from a can of pineapple rings to the sauce and then for the last 10 minutes of baking I garnished the ham with the pineapple rings.  Beautiful and tasty!!
Loved, loved, loved this ham!!!!  First time I ever made a ham.(had to ask other shoppers what to buy...shank or butt? Shank won!)  Excellent recipe even though I used brown sugar instead of the syrup and omitted the cloves(hate cloves..yuk). Will definetly make this again!
This make a great presentation ham, just like the picture.  Luckily the baste does make a lot because we could not reuse anything that cooked off because the honey separated under the aluminum foil and the butter remained on top (baked honey is a lot of fun to clean).   My husband and I have never made a ham before so we had to do some reasearch to what "score" means.  To score a ham means to cut diagonally at 1" intervals, cutting about 1/4" deep.  (score in opposite direction to make a diamond shape.) This made a great dinner ham but we didn't care for the flavor when used as leftovers for sandwiches.
Came out great! I used an 8lb spiral cut ham. I used 1 stick of butter, 1/2 cup of brown sugar, and 1 cup of honey and just a few cloves for the glaze based on previous reviews. I used most of it, but kept a little for the end.  I used an oven bag and flipped it over every 15-20 minutes to baste, it ended up breaking towards the end. At the end I took off the bag, brushed with a little more glaze I had not used, and put some brown sugar all over the ham, then broiled it on low for about 3 minutes for the crispy sugar layer the fancy pre-made hams come with. Watch the broiler it crisps fast. I followed the cooking instructions from the ham since it was precooked spiral cut, and cooked it on 275 for 10 minutes per lb to prevent drying out and it came out juicy and delicious. I served with cheesy potatoes and honey & brown sugar carrots cooked in the glaze.
This is as close to the honey baked ham that I have found. The only thing that was missing was the crunchy topping so after I basted and cooked the ham, I put brown sugar on top and broiled it for about 2 to 3 minutes you just have to watch it so that it will not burn.
Better than the famous honey baked ham at the store. I have some good tips! I used an ordinary Kirkland spiral ham from Costco...about 8 pounds. I think buying a spiral ham is key because all the glaze can get into the slices. I don't score it. I take the cold ham and pull the slices open, one at a time and pour the warm glaze into the meat.  I flip it over and do the same to the other side of the slices.  Then I put the ham meat side down on the pan and do another pour of the glaze over the whole ham.  I bake mine at 275 for 12 to 15 per pound.  I find that baking at this lower temperature makes it much more moist!  I do baste, but not as often as the recipe calls for-I'm too busy and I don't use a brush -just pour glaze on the ham w/ ladle. When the ham comes out, and as it rests a bit, I take a turkey baster and suck up all the hot ham juices/honey/sugar from the baking pan and start basting all the slices again as it cools!! It sucks up all the yumminess like you wouldn't believe. I carve it up and place the slices on a big plate and for good measure, pour a little bit of the pan juices over the slices. I found that the amount of glaze this recipe makes was enough for an 8 pound ham. I also used brown sugar instead of the corn syrup like the others mentioned.  I did't have whole cloves, so I put a tiny pinch of ground cloves in the sauce (but a very small pinch since it's strong). Didn't do double boiler, but kept on stove and heated it only as needed, mostly stove's off.
My first attempt at a ham.  My kids were skeptical when I told them I was making a ham, as we're not big ham eaters.  I used a bone in spiral cut smoked ham from Costco, 9lbs. I used 2/3c butter, 1/4 tsp ground cloves, 1/4c brown sugar and 1c honey. Placed in crockpot for 6 hrs on low and basted every 30mins.  Added baby carrots after 3 hrs.  This glaze is AMAZING! The carrots were delicious and the ham was awesome!  My kids were happily suprised and I received many many compliments.  Will definitely make this for years to come!
REALLY good glaze. The husband was so worried about me trying my own glaze instead of using a pre-glazed ham but one bite was all it took to calm his fears. I got a spiral cut ham and this made a delicious, light glaze that was wonderful on the outside but not so strong that it overpowered the meat. 

Followed reviewer's advice to use brown sugar instead of corn syrup and put the ham in an oven bag for easier glazing and clean up. WOW!
I wish I could add more stars to my review because this ham turned out great!  

I used a 9-1/2 lb butt portion ham that was not fully cooked.  I cooked it for two hours with just a little water and pineapple juice in a pan tented with foil.  I was using a meat thermometer, so once the temp reached about 100 degrees, I glazed it and let it cook until it reached 140 degrees.  

I halved the recipe for the glaze and it was more than enough for the ham.  I also used brown sugar instead of the corn syrup.  I didn't broil it at the end and I kept the foil on it for the entire cooking time so it didn't dry out.

I can't believe how good this ham tasted.  Our guests were taking samples as my husband was slicing it for the dinner.  I'll never again buy a honey-baked ham for the $50 or whatever it is they charge!
I read the reviews & this ham sounded wonderful, so I made it for the Holidays. The flavor was delicious. My 7-lb ham was literally covered in cloves & I still had about an 1/8 cup left, so you don't really need that much. Also, 1 hour & 15 minutes is way too long if you have a spiral sliced ham, as it got a little dry through the 1st 5 or 6 layers, but the glazed soaked in really nice & so it still had a wonderful flavor.

It does make a lot of glaze, but we saved it for the left overs & re-heated it serving it in little ramekins to dip ham pieces in as you would au jus, & that made it fun & yummier.

I think I might try cooking the glaze down a bit next time to get a thicker & less runny consistency so that I can cook the ham for a shorter period. Thinking 45 minutes would do fine for spiral cut & 1 hour for non cut for a moister ham. The orange juice idea also sounded tempting, so might also try adding that the next time. All & all though, this is an excellent base recipe with room for personal touches. Mahalo Colleen! (Thank You)
Hints:  This is the 10th time I've made this ham.   I put about a tablespoon of fresh lemon juice in the glaze and ground cloves instead of studding the whole ham.  This is just another variation.  We have 3 little ones, so they don't like pulling out cloves!

Best ham I've ever made.  Just wonderful taste.  I also put a little ground clove in the glaze for added flavor. Some pointers:  Seriously, really line the pan with aluminum foil.  I only put a flimsy piece in, and the glaze got underneath, and burned into this immovable glob of gunk.  I traded pans halfway through the cooking.  The ham was still the best though!  I just had to throw out the pan!
This is a recipe that must be altered to your taste preference and based on the size of your ham. I used brown sugar in place of the corn syrup and used ground cloves rather than whole. Baste regularly and it turns out lovely every time.
This is so good, make sure you keep the sauce warm for basting, I use a mini crock pot to keep it warm.
Due to having a diebetic in the house we used 2 cups of agave nectar in place of the honey and only used 2 tablespoons of cornsyrup.  We didn't tell anyone we made the switch and got rave reviews and our diebetic got to have "honey glazed ham".  Hope this helps those who have health issues.
My Easter ham came out great. The only complaints I might have is that I had a TON of the glaze leftover. Also, make sure you have a GREAT basting brush. The glaze is quite thick and you'll end up with hairs on your ham if you use a ratty old brush.
Do you remove the skin before cooking and adding the glaze or do you leave the skin on?
I thought this was excellent with just a few changes for personal preference. First, I use brown sugar instead of corn syrup. Second, I use 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves in place of whole cloves. And lastly, I cut down on the amount of the other ingredients. So for me, I mix together 1/3 cup melted butter, 1/4 cup brown sugar, 1/4 cup of honey and 1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg. I'm not a fan of cooking bags (just personal preference), so I triple line a 9X13 pan with foil and baste every 15 minutes. Super yummy! No more expensive honey baked hams for me!
This is a fantastic glaze! I followed other reviewers advice and cut the honey in half, substituted brown sugar for the corn syrup and used 1 tsp ground cloves as I had a spiral sliced ham. This made just enough glaze to do a 11 1/2 lb ham. wonderful!!! Thanks for sharing!
very good recipe! I used maple syrup instead of corn syrup and added some pineapple juice.
I used 1/2C brown sugar instead of corn syrup, 3/4C butter, and only 1C honey (no cloves) - and it was more than enough to coat and baste my 7 lb, pre-sliced ham with a bit left over. I rubbed on some brown sugar with about 10 minutes' baking time left...turned out delicious! The leftover meat was refrigerated with the leftover glaze, which left it moist and flavorful. Mmmm! Will likely use this recipe again for Christmas. :)
I used this recipe for the ham I cooked on Christmas.  It was DELICIOUS! I used brown sugar instead of corn syrup as well. I poured the glaze on for the first time after 20 minutes of being in the oven, and basted every 15 after that.  At the end, I sprinkled raw dark brown sugar on the top of the ham and turned on the broiler to make a crunchy glaze.  Wonderful.
I have made this twice now.  And each time my ham turns out wonderful!  Everyone tells me its the best ham they have ever had.  Thanks for a wonderful recipe.  Definitely a keeper.
Outstanding--better than the Honey Baked Ham Company brand.  I did tweak the recipe but only slightly.  I used a spiral ham.  Made the glaze using 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves and 1/4 cup brown sugar instead of whole cloves and corn syrup.  You will not believe how good this tastes!!!
I made this for a dinner party and just bought a basic Tyson spiral cut ham (1.79/lb) from the grocery store.  I found this recipe, and didnt want to make a 3rd trip to the store, so like many others I used brown sugar instead of the syrup and put the sauce on low on the stove, then turned off and let the oven heat keep the sauce warm while the ham cooked and I basted.  I also covered the ham with foil to keep it from drying out and the whole thing turned out really good.  Of course, how could brown sugar, butter, and honey not be good?  Thanks for the easy and delicious recipe.
Love, love, love this. Thanks for sharing :)
I made this for easter, I was a bit worried because I usally buy a Honey Baked ham.  I changed the receipe a bit using brown sugar instead of corn syrup.  I also followed the baking instructions that came with my store bought- sprial sliced ham, which were to bake it at 225 degrees for two hours (1/2 ham).  Put the sliced side down and put foil over it while baking.  It was every bit as good as Honey Baked and half the cost.!!!! Thanks for the receipe.
This glaze definitely delivered!  I had bought the honey baked ham before and was hoping to replicate it at home, and this recipe definitely got the job done!  I am providing many details about what I did because I had never made a ham before and had to research a bit to figure out what to do to actually put this meal together. We bought a pre-cooked spiral-sliced, bone-in ham (about 7 lbs), and followed the  directions on the package (put baby carrots, 1 can of pineapple juice, and the ham face-down in a foil lined roasting pan and baked at 325 degrees, 15 minutes of cooking per pound).  I modified the recipe for the glaze as other reviewers have noted and halved it and we still had plenty of glaze- I heated 1 cup honey, 2 tbsp Dark Corn Syrup, 2 tbsp Dark Brown Sugar, 1/3 cup butter, and 1 tsp ground cloves in a saucepan on very low heat (as I didn't have a double-boiler).  I then used a silicone baster brush to baste the ham every 15 minutes.  After the last basting, I reduced the rest of the glaze by turning the heat up in the saucepan and stirring continuously until it thickened.  Then, 5 minutes before I planned to take the ham out of the oven I poured the thickened glaze over the ham and took the lid off of the roasting pan to broil the ham.  It came out so delicious, both the ham and the carrots were juicy and flavorful.  I will definitely make this easy recipe again!  Don't forget to Baste, Baste, Baste! Me and my husband are still eating the delicious leftovers!
Fantastic! I love Honey-Baked ham but not the price you have to pay for them. I decided to try this. Pretty bold since I was having 22 people for dinner. It was a huge hit! I bought a 7 lb pre-cooked spiral ham for this recipe. I like many others used brown sugar and only 1 cup of honey because that is all I had. 
The glaze was not sticky like others said, nor did I have to keep it warm until I had used it all. I did use heavy duty aluminum foil and was glad I did. It leaked out a bit but was not hard to clean at all. I will make this many more times. It is a definite keeper! Thanks so much for sharing.
Made this recipe for Easter (and am making it again today).  I used a spiral cut ham, brown sugar instead of corn syrup, and half the honey.  Everyone loved it.
We loved this ham!  I used 1/3 cup of butter, 1/2 cup brown sugar & 1/4 cup of honey as suggested by other reviewers.  I will definitely be making this again!
This is excellent as is, or can easily be tweaked to met your family's tastes. Using an oven bag and flipping and turning it is far easier than basting, and clean up is easier, too.

NOTE: for those who miss the crispy crust of the true HoneyBaked - please know that they use a blowtorch or other hi-temp device to turn their glaze into the crispy crust you so admire!  You can do the same thing at home - save a small amount of your glaze, and thicken it with brown sugar.  It should resemble a wet paste.  Spread over your ham at the END of its' cooking time.  It should NOT run off, but should cover the ham surface.  Turn on your broiler and allow to preheat.  Slide ham under, and WATCH CAREFULLY!  When you get a nice bubbly surface, remove from heat.  Allow to cool and VOILA - a crisp crusted HOMEYbaked Ham.  :-)
The best ham I ever tasted!  My parents get ham every Christmas from the Honey Baked Company and I have to admit, this recipe's taste exceeds their's.

I substitute the dark corn syrup for brown sugar, since I prefer that taste instead.

One thing I have learned-
I baked a 12 pound ham and I didn't need the extra ingredients.  I would have save using the set proportions for the (5 pound) rather than use the Servings calculation.  Next time, I will start with smaller ingredient portions since it is used in the basting only.  

Try this!  You will love it!
Easy to make and was quite tasty.  I used an oven bag for easier cleanup.
I used this recipe to make my first holiday meal for my family.  It turned out excellent.  The taste is amazingly sweet and the recipe is easy to do while cooking other items.  Only thing I would change next time would be to not sear it under the broiler at the end.  It was perfect without, and burned a bit with.
This was wonderful!  I had never made a ham with glaze before & I was a little worried, but it went over really well with my "pickies".  I too cut the honey in half & used brown sugar, I didn't have whole cloves, so I put 1 tsp. of ground cloves into the glaze. We put on the grill & it turned out perfect.  Thanks much Colleen!
Aug 1/11 ~ Did this again but  for the first time tried it on the grill. It was absolutely delicious. I put it on my gas grill using indirect heat and maintained the temperature between 250* and 275* glazing every 15 minutes. I had it on about 1 1/2 ~ 2 hours.  This time I served it with Emily's Famous Hashbrowns (this site) and sauteed cabbage.
We throughly enjoyed this tonight with scalloped potatoes and veggies.  A real winner!  I will be using some of the leftovers in baked beans and can hardly wait! Thank you for sharing, delicious!
Incredible!  I followed the recipe for the most part.  Out of necessity, I changed the karo syrup to brown sugar and I only had a 1 3/4 cup honey and used enough cloves for looks rather than measuring.  Everything else was the same and the ham was so amazing.  My spiral ham was twice the size, 10# but I kept the liquid the same and had plenty.  I tented foil over the ham loosely so it wouldn't dry out and doubled the cooking time per package on ham.  I also cooked the ham on it's side rather than flat side down which is how I normally do it.  Half way through cooking, I flipped the ham and I'm glad I did.  The bottom was soggy from juice but an hour of basting it gave it a nice layer of crispness too.  Basting is key.  Also, I have a gas oven and turned the broiler on high for the last 5 minutes leaving some blackened bits of ham and smokiness in my oven. Next time, I'll broil on low.  All in all a tremendous success and the best have I've ever made!
This is a very good basic ham glaze.  It is not a substitute for the famous store-bought variety though--it has too much liquid to form a coating, even though I did substitute brown sugar for the syrup.  But, it's still very good.  Definitely half this recipe; I did (after reading these reviews) and still had leftovers.
This is an excellent recipe.  I bought a 13 lb. smoked semi-boneless ham and didn't change the amount of glaze, because I figured I'd have enough.  I did and actually put the leftover glaze in a gravy boat for those who wanted it.  I also used brown sugar instead of corn syrup.  I didn't score the ham, but put ground cloves in the glaze.  I tented the ham with foil and basted about every 15-20 minutes and then broiled for only about 3 minutes (low broil) at the very end.  The broiling put a beautiful color on it.  This ham was so juicy and tasty - I have never had as many compliments.  Considering that my ham cost about $11.00, I'm never buying Honeybaked again.
I made this for thanksgiving and it was the best. I had picked up crushed cloves instead of whole cloves by accident and was too scared to use it, afraid that i would use too much so I decided not to use it at all and this was by far the best ham I have ever eaten!  Thank you so much!  I did use a spiral sliced ham and there is no way to tell the difference between this one and the famous honeybaked hams!  WONDERFUL!
well i made it it came out good but here the problem 2 cups of honey cost $12 and hame cost $ 22 and other ingredient $13  if you buy the honey bake hame its like $ 52 and its done worth paying $6 dollar more to have it done
I have had the famous honey baked hams before. I like them but trust me, this recipe is just as good, if not better. Plus you save money! I have used whole cloves and sometimes add ground cloves to the honey mixture and baste on. Either way, it's good. I also use dark brown sugar in lieu of the corn syrup and increase the honey a bit. I think it makes for a better tasting ham. After taking my ham out of the fridge, I brush on some of the glaze and let it sit out for about 60 mins before baking. That way the inside of the ham won't be cold and the outside hot.
I used 1/4 c. of brown sugar instead of the corn syrup, I covered the ham with the cloves, pineapple slices and maraschino cherries, and I added a little bit of the pineapple juice to the glaze.
Everyone loved it. I will use this recipe everytime I make ham. Thank you!
This was amazing. I made a 13 pound ham for Easter and it was a HUGE hit! I bought a very cheap and basic ham, too. I followed other reviews and used and oven bag. AMAZING. It was so easy that I may make more ham when it goes on sale. I scored it all over. I used 1 cup honey, 1/2 cup brown sugar, and 2/3 cup butter. I flipped the bag every 15 minutes and cooked it for about an hour. I say it again... AMAZING! And, I have never done a ham before.
I am a mother of 2 small children, so when I saw the slowcooker adaptation that MAZZO did for this recipe, I leapt at the idea of 'taking the easy way out'. The added bonus of their adaptation was the honey glazed carrots. I was very disappointed with this recipe done in the slowcooker with the addition of baby carrots. I found that neither the ham nor the carrots really got a strong flavour. I decided this recipe deserved fair shake so I prepared it as written and surprise-surprise, it was oodles better. Since I still really wanted to accompany this recipe with honey glazed carrots, after the ham came out of the oven, I poured the remaining glaze into a small sauce pan with a small bag of baby carrots and boiled them together for 8-10ish minutes. The carrots were a dream. Thank you, MAZZO, for suggesting the addition of carrots, but when I make this recipe again, I will stick to the original and prepare my carrots as a seperate dish :)
I had a 9 lb precooked spiral cut ham and used 1 cup of butter, 1.5 cups of brown sugar, 1/2 tsp ground cloves and 2 cups of honey. I cooked the glaze and basted the ham with half of it prior to cooking. While cooking (I covered the ham with aluminum foil) I basted every 10-15 minutes and used up the rest of the glaze. I let it cook uncovered towards the end for about 10 minutes, then I broiled the ham for about 3 minutes, took it out of the oven, let it cool a bit. Then I rubbed brown sugar over the top and broiled it for 2 more minute. Delicious! The only thing that was missing was pineapple slices. I'll add that next time.
Fantastic.  It is now my christmas ham. Go easy on the cloves though unless you're big into cloves.
This is so simple and soooooo good! My wife is not a big ham fan but loves this recipe. I used the suggestion of using a oven bag, and I just flip it over every 15 mins or so. Also use brown sugar instead of corn syrup, it is simple delicious!
Great recipe. I also used butter rather than corn syrup, and for extra flavour added the zest of an orange, a small amount (1/4 cup) of orange juice, a large dash of orange liquer (Cointreau) and a teaspoon of Dijon mustard. The foil tip is a good one - baked glaze is pan-ruiner !
Delicious! I don't know how it compares to the Honey Baked Ham Brand cause i've never had it. However, this ham is the best i've had. I used a 5 pound spiral cut ham (see picture) and cut the glaze in half since most reviewers said it makes a lot of glaze. The amount was perfect and the ham turned out very flavorful. The cuts in the ham helped the glaze distribute.
This ham was out of this world delicious. I did change it up somewhat... omitted the cloves,added 1/4 cup brown sugar, used just 1-1/2 cups of honey  and added a bit of 7-up.
Everybody ate like there's no tomorrow! Thank you.
Good and easy!
Great taste, everyone loved it.
Baste often. I Make for Easter most years.   Makes a lot of sauce, can get away with half. Try in an oven bag turning over every 15 to 20 mins to baste.  Can use brown sugar instead of syrup.  
this was one of the best hams I ever made. Think it was because I followed the cooking time,Mine was 11 pounds wasn't dry at all and such a nice flavor[.FYI ,most hams are pre cooked, average cooking time is 15 min per pound @325 degrees. Plan your cooking time,go low and slow,you'll be glad you did
I used a crock pot liner and cooked it in the crock pot for several hours. It came out tasty and tender. Best ham I've ever made and it was loved by all.
Very tasty and great consistency for basting!  Did cut the recipe in half for a 5.27 lb ham and the amount was just right.  Also cooked the ham on the grill using the slow cook/indirect heat method.  1) Added onion, garlic, cloves and misc. seasonings to water in drip pan; 2)Place ham cut side down over drip pan, cook for 1 hour; 3)Take ham off grill, score and stud with cloves; 4) Return ham to grill, place cut side down, baste with glaze, cook 15 minutes, baste and cook 15 minutes more; 5) Place roasting rack on grill over drip pan, stand ham up on it's side in roasting rack, baste with glaze; 6) Continue cooking and basting every 15-20 minutes, until internal temperature reaches 160 degrees.  Let stand 10 minutes before slicing.  Came out fabulous!
Absolutely the best, hands down, ham that my family has ever eaten. I did sub brown sugar for some of the corn syrup and mixed ground cloves in the glaze instead of studding the ham. Also used a bone in ham because we like to make soup. Awesome!
Yumm!  I kept the exact recipe, but used a 8 lb. ham instead; so there was not extra sauce.  And used brown sugar in place of the syrup, like others have mentioned.  I also tented the ham for the first 60 minutes, and then left uncovered the last 20 minutes.
Amazing, the best ham I have ever had! Used brown sugar as a substitute.
great recipe .i have made it three times but used brown sugar and light karo syrup. alss added a touch of mustard for the bite .my family loves ot .this recipe is a keeper
Use brown sugar instead of molasses.  When it's done, sprinkle brown sugar on top and broil on low for about 5-10 minutes.  This comes out just like the hams at Honey Baked Ham Company.  Fantastic
I've made this twice and both times gotten rave reviews from everyone... Here is what I do: get a cheap ham I use a 6-7 pound butt portion.  I use brown sugar instead of syrup, use 1/2 cup butter, use 1 1/2 - 2 cups honey and I have not had whole cloves so I just sprinkle a little ground cloves in the mix. I don't baste, just brush the sauce on 3 - 4 times during baking.
Wonderful recipe.  I am going to be hard pressed to buy another honey glazed ham given the taste of this ham without the high cost.  I did cut the amount of glaze in half.  Also, I wrapped it is foil so that the ham wouln't dry out.
So I've now made this twice... I used ground cloves in the mix both times, and pineapple juice in the honey mixture once. Both times it was a hit.. delicious!
Juicy and tender, great flavor. I used a 6 lb. Bluegrass jubilee ham. Five hours on low in the crock pot, basting every 30-60 minutes, was perfect. Microwave the glaze - no need to mess with a double boiler.
My mother and I made this ham today, and it was wonderfully delicious! I omitted the cloves and used light corn syrup instead of dark. My mom said this recipe was a keeper, and I agree! Thanks!
This is a delicious recipe!  I made it for Thanksgiving and again at Christmas (by family request).  Everyone has asked for my recipe - it is one to keep!  I did follow the suggestion to switch out the syrup for brown sugar.  The best rendition for me came by accident.  I cooked the ham in the oven for an hour, then moved it to a lined crockpot.  After driving an hour, I plugged in the crockpot and cooked on high for another hour and a half.  My glaze had cooled and become thick like paste.  I kept spreading it on as the crockpot cooked and it made the sugary finish that you see on the name-brand ham that you pay $100.  Very yummy!
This is by far the best ham I have ever had.  I basted it often and generously.  When in the oven, I kept it loosely covered with aluminum foil to keep the ham from drying out and the glaze from burning.  For the last 5 minutes of cooking, I removed the foil and turned the broiler on to caramelize the glaze a bit.  It turned out wonderful.  Thanks!
Everyone who tries this says it's the best ham they've ever had. I don't use all the cloves, maybe 1 tablespoon. Just dot the ham with cloves to your liking. A quarter cup was too much clove for me. I bake this as described using a spiral ham, then I cut the ham off the bone into a crockpot and add all the juices and leftover glaze. Just heat it up to serve it. I've served it fresh out of the oven with the glaze on the side, but I think it's much better served from the crockpot.

There is no need for foil in the pan. It cleans up much easier without the foil.
Very good.  Tastes almost exactly like a purchased honey glazed ham.  I didn't bother with the entire amount of cloves as it would've taken me all day to insert them.  Still had good flavor and I didn't bother with turning on the broiler to carmelize.  Will make again.
Excellent per other reviewers suggestions (omit cloves, sub brown sugar for corn syrup). Thanks :-)
AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME!!! This was just wonderful!! I bought a 2 pound ham because it was just me & my hubby, so I cut the recipe in half. I made exactly as the recipe called for except I used brown sugar in place of the corn syrup because I didn't have any on hand. Then I lined my pan really good with tin foil & put half the glaze in there while simmering the other half on the stove. I basted the ham often & when there was 10 min. left for the ham & half of the remaining glaze on the ham & then the rest of it when there was 5 min. left. There was a ton of glaze but it was sooo yummy that I didn't mind at all!! I served with mashed sweet potatoes, squash & honey wheat bread (from this site) The bread tasted soooo great dipped in the glaze!! My hubby loves ham & he thought this was absolutley great! I like ham but I don't usually have more than a piece or 2 & I thought it was the best ham I ever had period!!! I will be making this for christmas dinner when I have the family over! Awsome recipe, thanks soo much :)
This was easy to do but not worth the time.  normally in our house ham is devoured but with this glaze no one even came back for seconds.  It was to bitter and to butter.  It was not the sweet honey taste I thought it would have.
Too much butter and honey! It was not a pleasent smell or taste. I did not alter the recipe. I would suggest less butter, honey, no cloves, and using light brown sugar in sub for the syrup. The strange sweet flavor over powered this ham! If you have a presliced ham bake with a foil cover or yours will dry out too. 
I have never made a ham before and this came out perfect!  My hubby said it was the best ham he's ever eaten!  :)  I followed "Mazzo"'s review and used 1/3 C butter, 1/2 C brown sugar and 1/4 C honey for the glaze.  I also put some sliced carrots in the baking pan with the ham so they got some of that honey-sugary flavor too.  I don't even really like carrots but I ate them all.  YUM!!!!  Thanks, Colleen, for an awesome ham recipe I will be sure to use again and again!
Very good and easy!
Thank you for sharing this recipe ! It was delicious i did not vary from the original recipe. I used a regular ham from the grocery store to test the recipe, Everyone loved it. next time i will splurge and buy the spiral ham this is definently a keeper.
I have been using this recipe from Colleen for years! Excellent flavor; you won't be disappointed! It has become a permanent recipe in my family's cookbook since the first day I tried it! Just as delicious as Honey Baked Ham Store!
LOVED this recipe! I used a 7lb Cook's shank portion ham.  It turned out great! I followed the suggestions of many other reviewers and substituted the brown sugar for the corn syrup and used 1/4 tsp ground cloves instead of whole cloves. I cooked the ham for about an hour in 1 cup pineapple juice before glazing. Didn't need to broil because the glaze was a beautiful, rich, golden color after about 1 hour and 15 minutes. I forgot to half the recipe and had a ton of glaze left over. I used it to moisten my leftovers before storing and they stayed yummy and juicy for days!
I have been looking for an easy ham glaze. Now I have found it!  I did make a few changes as other readers did.  I used 1/3 cup butter, 2/3 cup brown sugar, 1/2 cup honey, and 4 oz. pineapple juice.
This was great but I didn't waste time studding with whole cloves just used ground.  Used small, cooked ham
Delicious. This was my first ham ever. My whole family loved it, including the picky eaters. And the leftovers made great ham and  potato soup. It was somewhat hands on, but I will definitely make this again.
Excellent! Made this for our Thanksgiving dinner and everybody loved it. Bought an 11 lb. spiral ham. I also used 1/4 c. brown sugar instead of syrup and added 1 T. lemon juice. Instead of lining the pan with foil, I used an oven bag and carefully turned the ham over every 15 minutes. Came out so juicy...this will become a family favorite. Happy cooking!
I am new to this site but cannot stop now searching for recipes! Now everyone considers me a great chef but I don't work in a restaurant - only at home.  I made this on New Year's Day and it was fantastic and I don't even like ham at all but now I love it.  I used an electric roaeter oven - used organic honey - didn't have the syrup so followed the reviewers advice & also used foil under ham to keep from ruining my roaster.  Bought an uncooked ham (this was the first time I bought a ham & shopped on new year's eve so erred in my haste - I tried to avoid spiral hams & managed to do that.  I used the other recipe on this site due to it being raw for slow roasted ham (took about 5 or more hours) - 275 deg. and put honey & cloves on the ham b4 slow roasting.  Basted every hour -- then turned up the heat & followed this recipe for last hour & 1/2 +.  Made 10 lb ham.  It was the best ever - moist soft - better than honey baked ham store! It was just my husband and me but w/in 4 days we ate the whole ham! Used leftovers in lots of casserole & scalloped potatoes. I am making it for Easter tomorrow! can't wait
One of the best techniques for glazing ham anywhere. We had a 17 lb boneless and we followed the receipe to the letter. You have to baste every 15 minutes but it's not that big of a deal and the reward is WELL WORTH THE EFFORT! Boy oh boy, was this ever a big hit. People were saying that this was the best ham that they had ever eaten. THANKS COLLEEN for posting it on Allrecipies.
Excellent!  I just made this for our Sunday lunch and it was amazing and super easy.  I followed the recipe exactly.  My husband kept picking at the ham after we were finished eating saying how amazing it was.  This will be my go to ham recipe!!
This makes a delicious ham!  I had an 8-pound spiral cut ham and used 1/4 tsp ground cloves, 1/4 cup brown sugar, 1 cup of honey and 2/3 cup butter.  It was not too sticky while basting, but the pan was a mess afterwards.  I'm thinking of getting a disposable pan to put inside our roasting pan next time, and then I could throw it out.
I followed the various suggestions, using brown sugar, and ground cloves, and a smidge of pineapple juice.  I turned the scored side down,  cut slices down the top side, and basted every 18 minutes. This was the MOISTEST ham I have ever eaten, and hubby loved it!  I didnt have a fully cooked ham, so baked for 18 minutes per pound.  The amount of sauce in this recipe worked out perfectly for my 11.5 lb. ham.  EXCELLENT!, will definitely make again.
What a wonderful recipe! I used a "butt portion" ham, bone-in, and had the most tender and juicy ham ever made. I have made many hams, but never one this delicious. Not too sweet, and not at all salty. I cooked mine cut side down. Perfection! So good I froze the leftover glaze for next time. The sweetness was a nice touch for the pea soup I made with the bone and *very little ham that was leftover. Thank you Colleen !
I have been cooking for more years than I would like to admit....but this is the very best way to make ham!
Don't follow the review for the crock pot. It will be dry! Next time, I will make it as directed.
Wonderful recipe. I made this for Christmas dinner and everyone agreed this is the best ham they had ever tasted and my MIL has ordered up some very expensive hams in the past...this ham was far better than any of those.  I used a spiral cut ham that I purchased from my local grocery store...nothing special about it other than the cut, I doubled the recipe because I had a 14lb ham(will not double next time-too much) and substituted 1/2 tsp ground cloved for the whole cloves.  I cooked it in a foil pan so I didn't have to worry about clean up. I basted every 10 - 15 minutes and at 45 minutes the slices started falling open so I turned on the broiler and broiled for about 7 minutes...really watch it at this point because it will brown faster than you think.   Thank you for a wonderful recipe. I will be happily making this every Christmas as ordered by my MIL. Everyone loved it.....did I mention that there was barely any leftovers to send home? We only had 13 people here and 2 were under 8. YUM YUM YUM!!!!!
Amazing! When I found this recipe here, I wanted to try it. My husband grew up on the bought honey ham from the store, and he was a little wary of this. No more! Now he brags to everyone about how I make a honey ham better than you can get from the grocers! Everyone who has tried it has absolutely love this ham, look no more for a better recipe! I cooked mine in the slow cooker on low, so it was nice and moist. However, next time I will put skewers in it, because since it was scored, the front piece fell over and became hard since it was it the glaze the whole time. I lined the slow-cooker with foil, (generously), sprayed it with pam, so clean up was a snap! I kept the glaze warm on the stove top...I didn't use a double boiler, but I sprayed the pot with veg. oil, melted the butter first- clean up wasn't a problem. I'm making this for Thanksgiving and Christmas every year!
I myself am not much of a ham eater, but my mom who rarely compiments said it was excellent!! I purchased half a boneless ham at Christmas time and had the butcher cut it in dinner slices.  I made the glaze omitting the cloves and substituted brown sugar for the corn syrup.  I marinated it overnight, baked it for 20 minutes at 350 and it was delish!
Delicious! I followed the suggestions and used 1/8cup brown sugar and 1/8cup light corn syrup (didnt have dark). I also halved the honey and butter. I didn't have cloves either and it was still amazing!
This is just like the description says... Easy and a lot less costly than the original.  I enjoyed it, and my fiance did as well.  No matter what, people are sharing their own recipes and there is absolutely no reason to be so harsh with reviews.  A review is a review, but to completely bash someone is absolutely uncalled for.  Maybe some reviewers should seek anger management.
made this for Christmas dinner and my family loved it!  Will be my go to recipe for ham.
I am not usually a person to review recipes, but this was so good I just had to! I made it for a family dinner an all I got were heaps of compliments. I did substitute the same amount of brown sugar for the dark corn syrup, just because I didn't have any on hand. Will definitely make again!
Sorry, but I was not very impressed with this recipe (maybe I expected too much based on the description and all the rave reviews).  Maybe I did something wrong...but the glaze is so thin, it all runs off and ends up in the bottom of the pan.  Not sure whether the glaze actually affected the taste of the ham since none stayed on.  Doesn't seem worth the effort of all that basting.  Probably will not make this again.
Cooking the ham with the honey glaze was very good.  I changed the original recipe based on others' suggestions.  I used 2/3 cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 1/2 cup honey, and 1 t ground gloves for a 9 pound ham. I based it every 10 - 15 minutes. I raised the temperature to 425 for the last 10 minutes of baking rather than broiling it.  I decided to use this ratio because I didn't want the ham to be too sweet. I was afraid if it was too sweet I wouldn't be able to use the leftovers in some of my recipes.  
Excellent Recipe I changed it a bit, I loved the idea of Cloves all throughout the Ham.
a few important things to note.
1) if using a spiral cut ham place Face side Down in the foil pan, 
2)and the hour 15 minutes is a general cooking time it varies depending on the weight of your ham, rule of thumb i follow is 10 min per pound,

I cut up some apples and glazed the apple slices early let them cook with ham and them Galzed ham  periodically I like the use of brown sugar and i used Real maple Syrup, turned out great.

I went overboard with the clovesd but the flavor was rubust and It was a hit for my wifes birthday Dinner, we served it with Wild rice and warm Slow cooker milled Apple cider.

Yummy

Ok after reading a bunch of reviews I did the following: I sprayed my slow cooker and then lined it with two criss crossing sheets of foil, which made for a very easy clean up.  I chopped up a bunch of carrots and placed them on the bottom of the slow cooker.  Then I took a 7.8 lb spiral ham and glazed it with a mixture of 1/4 tsp ground cloves, 1 cup honey, 1/3 cup butter, 1/4 cup brown sugar (as per a reviewers suggestion) then I placed the ham inside the slow cooker, set on low for 5 hours.  I started off turning it every time I glazed (every half hour) but slacked off towards the end.  THe end result was the bottom had a bit more flavor than the top.  It was still really juicy and had good flavor but next time I think I would glaze every 30 minutes and flip it half way through.  I would also put more carrots in as they were devoured. Oh it is delicious to keep the juice in the bottom of the slow cooker to pour on mashed potatoes or other veggies.  Yum! UPDATE: Made this again for easter, made an non spiraled ham cut the carrots thin and put it on high this time.  While the ham stayed juicy the carrots got soggy.  The unspiraled ham was more moist but didnt have the same flavor throughout. Less sweet is better for sandwiches though.  In future will still to low on slow cooker for 5 hours, medium cut carrots, probably not spiraled.
Very yummy!  I did half the amount of corn syrup and added 1/4 cup brown sugar.  I also cut the honey down to 1 cup, but still found it a bit to honeyish so I added a pinch of cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger and allspice.  Came out wonderful.....will use again.
Good base recipe. I exclude the corn syrup, reduce the honey to 1/4, add 1/4 C. brown sugar and use about 1/4 butter. I find cooking the ham in a Reynold's cooking bag works well. It provides for self-basting and a moist ham. I also place pineapple slices (with moistened toothpicks) into the ham and reduce the whole cloves. Sometimes I change up the "sauce" and add a couple tablespoons of Dijon mustard and the pineapple juice to the ingredients mentioned earlier in my rating. I know it is really not proper to rate based on a revised recipe, however, this original recipe would be too sweet for our liking. Happy Easter to all!!
I've been making this for Christmas the last two years. I don't find it a bother to baste every 15 minutes at all...I'm in the kitchen anyway and the end product is worth it. I don't like cherries or pineapple so this is a grea alternative. Thank you.
We thought this was great! Per others, I used brown sugar instead of the syrup and ommitted the cloves.  Also, I don't have a baster, so I just turned the ham every 15 minutes until it was done. This is my first homemade honey ham, and they way even leftovers disappeared, I'd wager this recipe was a success. Thanks Colleen!
I used the same suggestions that MAZZO  used and it turned out great.  I used about 1/3 cup butter, 1/2 C of brown sugar, and about 1/4 honey. I didn't have whole cloves so I used ground mixed in with the glaze. Thanks for the tips.
I just had a Christmas party and made this ham, I too like most of you used Brown sugar in place of Syrup.  This turned out excellent!!  Everyone raved about it.  It was so wonderful and by far the easiest recipe!!  Save your money on buying a honeybaked ham when you can just make this recipe that taste the same maybe even better!!
My parents were blown away at Christmas dinner.  They said it was by far the best ham they had ever had.  The last three years we bought those expensive boutique hams, well no more!  My husband said this was just as good if not better.  And it cost a fraction of the price.
This was excellent! I made this for my family for our Christmas supper. My kids said, "Mom, this is the best ham ever!" I did flub up my first batch of glaze. I had it on the stove on warm, but got distracted and it started boiling. By the time I got to it, it was caramel! I did my next batch in a double broiler (which I should have done in the first place!). I also did as some others and cooked my carrots in with the ham--they were soooooooo yummy! I was afraid they would have a "hammy" taste, but they were sweet and done to perfection. I cooked the whole shebang in my 5 qt. crockpot on high for about 5 hours since I was going to be taking the lid off often to baste the ham. It was perfect. Thanks so much for sharing a wonderful recipe!
I had the cheapest precooked ham from the local grocery store weighing 6.5 lbs. I used half the glaze amount and still had more than we needed. Didn't use whole cloves, just put a tsp of ground cloves and used brown sugar in lieu of corn syrup.
We grilled our ham in a throw away foil pan on the Weber grill over indirect heat for about 1 1/2 hours, basting it about every 20 min. OMG not only was it the most beautiful ham I've ever seen it tasted amazing, so sweet and juicy. I do have to admit we used orange blossom honey, had a little bit of orange juice in the pan for liquid to keep the ham from drying out, and put some orange wood in with the charcoal for flavor. But with out all that it still would be fantastic. I look forward to the leftovers all week long.
Tried this recipes for Christmas Eve dinner with the changes suggested by other readers and thought it was delicious.  I would definetely make this again. The changes I used were: 1 tsp ground cloves instead of whole cloves, brown sugar instead of corn syrup, and 1 cup instead of 2 cups honey.  Recipe made made more than enough glaze for a 9 1/2 lb ham.
A great Sunday dinner! Good stuff!
This is a good recipe.  It did not quite carmelize as good as I had hoped, but still turned out very good.  I used brown sugar instead of syrup.  I think next time I will use less honey and more brown sugar.  Left overs were outstanding.
fantastic!  i had a bone-in, 7 lb. precooked ham.  i scored the top (cut 1/2" deep strips in the top and then did the same diagonal to those cuts) and halved the recipe.  definitely dont need the full recipe whatsoever!  i used 1/4 cup brown sugar instead of the karo syrup and 1/4 tsp. ground cloves instead of whole cloves.  i put the ham and glaze in an oven bag, cover a cookie sheet with foil and cooked it in the oven for 18 minutes per pound.  every twenty minutes i flipped the baste around on the ham - voila, theres my basting.  i wouldnt do it any other way than with an oven/turkey bag.  loved this ham!
I scaled it down because I was only doing a butt section of ham and left out the cloves because my wife doesn't like them. It came out excellent. I used a low sodium Smithfield ham. It came out just right for our tastes.
Super easy and delicious.  I don't like using corn syrup so I replaced it with pure maple syrup.  Loved it!  Next time I will use less cloves and add brown sugar, but all inn all it was great!
Made this for Christmas....sooooo yummy!!! I didn't have any dark corn syrup so I used maple syrup. VERY good! I let the ham marinate in the glaze for a few hours before baking..I used slices of ham instead of the whole ham. Family loved it!
I made this ham for Easter dinner. It turned out delicious. I only made half the glaze and it was plenty for a 5 pound ham. Watch the ham very carefully while it's under the broiler. It will only take a minute or two. I can't wait for leftovers! 
This was amazing.  I didn't have the whole cloves so I used ground allspice instead and it tasted great.  My non-ham loving husband even said it tasted really good.  I took out the corn syrup and replaced with brown sugar and I halved the recipe from suggestions of others.
The best!!!!!!!  Easy and everyone loved it.  Thanks:)  Update: 11/08 another wonderful ham.  Used brown sugar instead of corn syrup. Doubled the recipe and served some warm in a gravy boat at the table.  
This was soooooooooooo good! I made it lastnight for my husband's birthday. I made it with green beans and potatoes. He said it tasted better than any restaurant. The kids liked it too. we were quiet during dinner-unless you count the snorting sounds, because we were busy inhaling the dinner. I'll never make ham another way. And why buy a Honeybaked ham? My ham cost less than $6 and was just as good. I used only 1 cup of honey and probably less cloves than the recipe calls for-and brown sugar instead of corn syrup. This ham was the best!!
We really liked this recipe.  If you make it, you might want to use powdered cloves as some have suggested.  The only thing I found wrong was that it was impossible to find all the studded cloves and biting into them here and there was not pleasant.  However, the ham was excellent - loved it.
This was perfect. I used a cheap ham, followed directions exactly and it was the best ham we ever had!
Whole family thought the glaze was tasty. As others suggested, I halved the recipe and subbed brown sugar for the corn syrup. Used 1/4 tsp ground cloves instead of the whole (since I had a 8 lb spiral ham) and mixed it in with the other ingredients.  The key is to baste it every 15-20 min. Turned out great but I had a lot of glaze left. Next time I will cut the recipe even further.
I think this may have been the best ham I've ever had!  The glaze caramelized nicely and the ham was so moist!!!!!
I thought this glaze was pretty good. I used a few pointers from past reviews such as adding some brown sugar.I also cut up a whole pineapple and used the slices to decorate my ham, and with the remaining pineapple I smashed it up and added the juice to the glaze. I also put a few cherries on the ham for color. There are a few things you should do...first off tripple up on the tin foil that lines your pan! Otherwise you end up with a nice big sticky mess. And second, you should cut  this recipe in half! Its such a waste. I thought because I was making a 10 pound ham that I would need all of that glaze and honestly I used half. But other than those 2 things it was really yummy!!
This was my first honey ham, ever! And this recipe is TO DIE FOR! I didn't use the cloves, and instead of 1/4 of dark corn syrup, I used 1/8 cup of brown sugar and 1/8 cup of dark corn syrup, and only ONE cup of honey. Made PLENTY of glaze! I also set my timer every fifteen minutes, and BASTED! This is absolutely necessary!! And the aluminum foil, makes for EASY cleaning! THANK YOU! THANK YOU! Will be keeping this bad boy!
We just had this for Easter dinner, and it was excellent!  Everyone loved it.  I followed a few other reviewers suggestions - made the glaze with 1/4c honey, 1/4 c pineapple juice, 1/2 c packed brown sugar, 2T butter, and 1/4t ground cloves.  We basted every 20 minutes until the ham was done (based on the directions that came with my ham).  When it was done, I sprinkled maybe another 1 or 2 T of brown sugar over the ham and threw it under the broiler for 2 minutes.  The pineapple juice kept it thin enough so we had a nice pan of drippings that was fabulous to serve with the ham.  Thanks for a great base recipe and for all of the fabulous suggestions in the reviews!
I've tried this recipe twice now and the family loves it. The second time I took the advice of other reviewers and halfed the recipe for the glaze. There was just enough and after the final basting I turned off the oven and put broiler on hi for the last few seconds. This made the coating brown and a little crispy, yum!!!
Delicious!  Used 1 stick of butter, 1/2 c. brown sugar, 1/4 c. honey and a couple of squirts of good brown mustard to cut the sweet. YUM!
This was my first time baking a ham.  It came out wonderful.  I was planning on using the left overs to prepare a couple other dishes.  But there were no left overs (I used and 8lb. ham!).  Great recipe, I will definately use this again and again!
Have made this ham for Christmas and Easter the last two years, each time it turns out fabulous.  I followed recipe to the letter.  Unlike others, I never seem to have too much glaze.  I normally buy a 9 or 10 lb ham and baste heavily (especially when first putting in the oven) with a silicone brush.  I buy a spiral sliced ham, and my only addition to the recipe is using a wooden skewer to hold the slices together while baking.  Great recipe..my son in law says it's the best ham he's ever had.  This is a keeper.
I used a 14 lb spiral sliced ham and followed the recipe almost exactly: I used a bigger ham, and I didn`t stud the ham with cloves, I added about 1 tsp of pumpkin pie spice to the glaze.  When cooking, I followed the advice of another reviewer by putting everything into a cooking bag and just rotating the ham every 20 minutes or so. Unfortunately, my bag broke about halfway through, so I stopped turning it. The end result was really tasty.
This was a good recipe to do but whew, I halved the 1/4 cup of cloves! If you like a STRONG taste of cloves, go right ahead but I could still really taste the flavor over everything else. Happy Easter!
I made this ham yesterday for our Easter Dinner. Wow! this was amazing! Our home smelled so good! Thanks for posting this wonderful recipe! A keeper, for sure!
Yumm-O!
This made for a very delicious Easter ham. No need for Honey Baked Ham Store anymore if you ask me.
This was really good but maybe a little sticky in the pan to clean up. I accidently overcooked my ham this way, but it was still tasty.
This was okay but I probably will not make again. Personally, I prefer the the ham in the slow cooker. I would also like to use a recipe that uses brown sugar.
This is a wonderful recipe that makes an everyday ordinary ham extraordinary!  I also use the ham bone to make ham broth that is wonderful to make rice in or to add to mashed potatoes!
This was a very good ham and easy to make.  I had a 8 lb ham and ran out of honey...only had about 1 1/2 - 2 cups honey and the glaze came out good.  My husband and I aren't big on cloves so we used far less cloves than the recipe called for.  I am going to try the recipe again without the cloves. EDIT - I have been making this recipe for a few years and it always comes out great. I tried omitting the cloves, but while still good, it's just not the same result/taste. For those that do not care for cloves, add some water to the bottom of your roasting pan, and add the cloves. Then, place the ham on the roasting rack. Delicious results with just a hint of clove taste/smell, but not overwhelming. Lastly, I find that I end up with way too much glaze left over, but I always forget by the next time I need to make a ham and yes, I'm basting often too! I suggest cutting the mixture in half, but that's just me and maybe I am just not heavy handed when I baste.
Just a small pointer, if you are using a brush to baste with , before starting use duct tape on the brush to get all the loose hairs off the brush.  Am making this for christmas will let you know how it turns outt.  Merry Christmas
Made this for New Years day with collard greens.  Followed someone's suggestion on using oven bag. Only problem with that is, because of the 6 holes that need to be cut into bag, kept me from rolling ham around.  Glaze was beyond delicious.  My eyes rolled back in pure ecstatic pleasure.
This recipe was so good. I loved the glaze, but I did not use wholes cloves.  I added about a teaspoon of ground cloves to the glaze mixture.  I had left over glaze so when the ham was done I cut it up and drizzled the hot glaze over it.  Yummy!!
Really great recipe!  I used a 10 lb ham scored it and placed in oven bag with sauce.  I used 1/2 c brown sugar, 1 c honey, 3/4 c butter, 2T Molasses and 2 teaspoons of ground cloves.  I left out 1/4 c of sauce for the very end for last minute basting before serving and must say I will never spend my money on Honey Baked again! I cooked ham for 2 hrs at 325
Recipe rather inprecise, and not very enticing. I'd prefer to know how Honey-Baked Ham makes theirs.
I believe you could use fresh ginger in place of the cloves.
Thanks so much for this recipe, Colleen. This is the best ham I have ever eaten. I omitted the cloves, and replaced the corn syrup with brown sugar, after I read the reviews. Also, for the six pound ham I had, I divided the recipe for the glaze in half, and had plenty of glaze. It was great.
outstanding
This is a great recipe if you like a sweetness to your ham.  I made my glaze a little different with honey, brown sugar and a pinch of cinnamon.  Very good
Tasty, but recipe made too much glaze. All it did was slide off ham and carmelize on the bottom of the pan.
Oh my lord this is to die for.  Don't waste your time looking for better recipes...there aren't any.
Two words: YUM-MY!  I made this glaze to use on a 10lb. spiral cut ham on New Year's Day and the family loved it! I used brown sugar instead of the dark corn syrup and added 1/4 tsp. ground cloves to the glaze instead of using whole cloves on the ham.  I actually used an oven bag and poured the glaze on at the start and only basted at the end of the cooking time after I took it out of the oven.  I can't imagine how wonderful it must be when you baste as often as the recipe suggests.  I just had too much to do to baste the ham during cooking.  It still turned out wonderfully and this is my new glaze recipe from now on.
The glaze is a winner!  I followed the baking instructions that came with my ham (shank portion), basting every 15 minutes.  I also added 1 c of water to the pan prior to baking.  When the ham was done, I mixed the drippings with the leftover glaze to use as a gravy.  This will be my "standard" ham for years to come!  Thanks, Colleen!
Beautiful! It was also moist and succulent!
This was my first time making ham and it was so tasty!! My husband who's usually pretty picky even liked it! It was super moist and tender. I used brown sugar instead of corn syrup and put the 3 lb ham into the crock pot with baby carrots for an hour on high. It was still slightly cold, so I put it into the oven for another 30 minutes and it was perfect! I also made apple hash (potatoes, onions, apples, and cheddar cheese) to go along with it!
I bought a Bone In Hamsteak (one thick slice) prepackaged from the store (about $3.00) I added a scoop of brown sugar,  chunk of melted butter, and a couple tablespoons of melted honey. I mixed it together and using a pastry brush I brushed both sides of the ham. I cooked it about 10  minutes. It was delicious! Tasted like the real thing and so easy!! My 8 year old said it was "better than pizza" That says it all!!
Awesome! Left out the cloves b/c not a big fan and added some maraschino cherry juice. Used brown sugar instead of Karo but did end up adding a little to thin it down. You MUST cover the ham w/ foil or it will dry out--this is important! I made a tent over mine that was secure around the edges of the pan but didn't press much against the ham itself.
I really can't cook...don't like to cook.  But I've been delegated to making family dinners and wanted to try something different for Christmas Day dinner (yes, I know this review is late).  I knew I wanted to do a ham and found this recipe.  It was so easy to mix the glaze.  I made sure when I glazed every 15-20 minutes, I glazed between the slices.  My family loved it!!  My brother told me the next day he and my sister-in-law were talking about the ham on the way over and got to my parent's house early to have some leftovers before Christmas dinner.  I forgot to mention that I'm not really a "ham" person.  It's okay but not my first choice.  I am now making it for Easter dinner.  I will probably be making it for Christmas Eve and Easter every year from now on.  I would highly recommend this recipe for anyone who wants a great tasting meal but pretty much "idiot-proof."
The ham was moist, but I don't think the flavor was imparted very much.  The flavor was nice, but it didn't absorb into the ham that we could taste.  Otherwise it tastes fine, and I'm not sure its the recipes fault, maybe I'm just meant to drizzle the liquid over the meat when we are eating for the flavor, which we did after I thickened it.  Not a bad recipe, just not something you think about and crave.
I just tried this and used Brown sugar instead of the corn syrup and it was EXCELLENT!!  I also used Boneless Turkey breast instead of Ham and it was very good.  I'll be using this recipie from now on.
Great recipe, but I liked it better with 1 cup brown sugar, 3/4 cup honey, and 1/2 cup of Dijon mustard.  In addition to studding the ham with whole cloves, try adding about 1/4-1/2 tsp. in the glaze.  Everyone LOVED it with the mustard!!!
I needed to make something fairly easy for dinner for my boyfriend who had been eating out due to me being sick for two days. I decided to use a little 1.5 lb prepared ham and needed to find some kind of way to prepare it without using pineapple because I didn't have any and was in no condition to go to the store. Anyway, changes I made were scaling down ingredients for our little ham, using crushed cloves for ease of preparation, and following suggestions of brown sugar instead of corn syrup. Neither of us really love ham, but this was great; moist and delicious! Thank you so much for sharing! This is definitely going to be my ham recipe from now on!
I use my moms Honey Glaze recipe on this one.. But other than that, its the same.. But I use Brown Sugar, and powdered sugar mixed in.. The powdered sugar helps it STICK to the ham along with honey.. It is REALLY good..
This is hands down, the single best ham I have ever made in my life.  However, it does not taste like Honey Baked...it's better!!!  My whole family loved this, it's great!  Made it exactly as the recipe called for, no changes needed.  Try it, I promise, you won't be sorry!!
We used this glaze for our Christmas ham. We reduced the recipe by half (except for the cloves) and had plenty of glaze. We applied it liberally with a basting brush every 15 min. Everyone loved it; no leftovers.
Okay had some problems with this but it turned out amazing.  I bought a bone in spiral ham, presliced...didn't fit in the crockpot...so I ended upsmushing it in there and losing up some of the slices.  I did put this in on its side... I used pineapple juice from the slices...glaze is very thick. I put the pineapple juice on and basted every 25 mins, I used the juices at the bottom of crockpot, that I lined with foil, to baste as well as the glaze.  Do not get scared 5 hours on low, I almost turned it up to high but I read other reviews don't do it. Excellent flavor with the pineapple juice...everyone loved it.  This is my first attempt at Ham.  Crockpot 5 hrs low, glaze, and pineapple juice...baste baste baste!
Nice flavor but the cloves sorta overwhelmed the taste..it was still a hit..
This recipe made a such yummy ham!  I cooked it in my slow cooker on low heat for about 7 hours with the glaze, basting every 1/2 hour or so.  I didn't have whole cloves, so I just sprinkled a little bit of ground cloves over my ham before pouring the glaze over the top.  The results were amazing.  
Yummy! Cooked my bone-in Easter ham in an oven bag with this glaze, flipping it about every 20 min.  I cut the butter to 1/4 cup and subbed brown sugar for corn syrup.  Glad I did as at the end the glaze was very "juicy" from the ham.  we really enjoyed the flavor and moistness of our ham.
I made this for my family and we all ate way too much because of how good this was. Now this is going to be our holiday recipie!
Not bad but not terrific.  It was good ham, but not a standout glaze.  My family likes the glaze that comes in the packet just as well.
My mom made this ham for xmas dinner, and it was by far the best ham I have ever had. An great tase, moist and overall delicious. Now Im going to make it for my family for Easter
I followed this recipe EXACTLY for my 10lb spiral sliced Christmas ham. My boyfriend and I were both disappointed! I wish I had kept it covered, and followed the directions that came with the ham itself (oven 275). It seemed 325 for the time indicated left it a bit dry, even basting every 15 minutes. It's not a total loss but I expected it to be perfectly delicious. Not so..
It is a very good recipe but make sure to not over cook or dry out the brown sugar at the end of the baking process.  take it out as soon as and exactly when the recipe says to.
Yummy! I made ham for the forst time ever on Eater, and this glaze was a breeze.  I amended it, because I dodn't have any caro syrup, but it was still sweet and yummy just like th eoriginal.
This is a keeper. I did in in the crock pot lined with crock pot liner. No mess.
Made this for Easter sunday and it was wonderful. I cooked it as directed and basted every 15-20 min. with the glaze. When it was done, we sliced it up and put it in the crock pot, along with the juices, to keep warm while I baked the side dishes. We didn't have the carmelized glaze this way, but it was still very good.
This was an extrodinary ham recipe. However, I took off a star because of the 4-5 minutes on broil burnt the crust of my ham. My crust already look perfect and carmalized by the time I turned the oven to carmalize, and thought it would be a mistake ... however I thought I would give the broiler a chance. BIG mistake. I set the timer and forgot to check on it more often than the timer as I was getting other things ready. The crust became quite black by the time the timer went off.  Like most people I only made a half recipe of glaze and had leftover. I also added the 1/4 teaspoon of ground cloves to the glaze versus inserting cloves into the ham. I had wanted to use by slow cooker, but my 9 lb ham wouldn't fit in it so I used my oven. The oven cooked it perfectly.  After the slices of ham were off the hock, I made a white bean soup with it. My husband now wants a ham once a month, but I'll not be cooking it quite that often. ;) Maybe once every other month. 
This was excellent! My family loved it! However, there was quite a bit of glaze left, so I would scale the ingredients by 1/2.
This was very good ham...no doubt about it. It was not my favorite though...my dad's ham glaze is the best!
This makes a LOT of glaze. 2 cups is a lot of honey (which aint cheap) and the majority of it ended up in the bottom of the pan rather than on the ham. I used brown sugar rather than the syrup, and it may be my fault that it didn't glaze up. For the life of me I can't get a ham glaze right, anyway. Last ten minutes I turned on the broiler, which helped. It was a very tasty glaze though!
Read reviews first!  The oven bag would have been SUPER helpful!
Delicious!  I got RAVE REVIEWS on my ham on New Years day!
sooo easy! My family loved it, I made it a few weeks ago for a dinner party and everyone requested it again for easter.
Makes a lot of glaze. Used a 7 pound ham and had a lot left. Most of it ran off as its awfully thin. Wont  be making it again.
Simply wonderful recipe! My family has always been picky about their ham and they all loved it!
This made a very tasty ham but I like a bit more than sweet taste so added garlic powder and 1 TBS Dijon to the glaze. Also I used brown sugar instead of Corn Syrup as others have suggested. My Mother In Law taught me to add about a half bottle of 7up to the pan as well - it seems to draw the salt out and keep the ham moist and tender. Also helps to prevent a huge sticky pan mess from the glaze.
The meat was good, but the outside got too brown and tasted a little bitter.  I think I would cover it for part of the cooking time or remove it sooner.
Great recipe! Used brown sugar like others and used a cooking bag. Easy, tastes great!!! Will never buy an expensive ham from a retailer again!
So amazing. Used the exact ingredients, followed the instructions exactly. Perfect :)
Used the slow cooker for 4plus hours (3 on high, the rest on low) - had karo cornsyrup with brown sugar and added a bit more brown sugar to it, used a third of the cloves, cooked with baby carrots, basted often and the meat fell apart. It was scruptious! Will make again.
This was a wonderful glaze. I used it on a 5lbs smoked bone in ham. I prepared the glaze exactly as directed and the ham was exceptional. The only thing I didn't do that was recommended by almost all the prior reviewers was to line my roasting pan with aluminum foil for easy clean up....took a lot of elbow grease to clean up my pan. I even considered throwing it away instead of cleaning it. Even with the cleanup I would use this glaze again. Thank you Colleen
My family loved the ham. It was very easy to make. I will make this again! It's a hit.
Used this for our Christmas ham and it was wonderful! i swaped the corn syrup for brown sugar and cut the honey in 1/2.  I used the microwave to melt it all and brushed the ham every 15 mon. It was just great! this is the only glaze recipie I will use now.
I followed the suggestion of previous reviewers, by pre-slicing the ham, and substituting packed brown sugar for the dark corn syrup.  The flavor was out of this world!  Colleen, thanks for sharing.
I used a 12lb spiral sliced ham. Placed in oven bag. Warmed 1/4c brown sugar, 1c honey, 1 tsp ground cloves and poured over the ham. Placed bag in foil lined pan, though didn't need to because nothing leaked. I turned ham every 15min.  Took 1hr 15min for this size ham. Family loved it! Perfect Easter ham.
It is very good! I added the recipe in my cook book. Highly recommended!
This is amazing. I have made it 2 times and it has been devoured. I freeze the ham bone to use in split pea soup at a later date.
I basted the ham about every 20 minutes and it was wonderful.  I think it may be the best I've had, definitely the best I've ever made.  I will never try another recipe for baked ham, I had a 15 lb ham and I only had enough stuff to make one batch of the glaze, it got the job done but next time I will double it, this time I just basted it from the bottom of the pan when what I had on the stove ran out.  
Loved this!  I made this for Thanksgiving and it was amazing. I used a throw away pan so no need for the foil but I did pour the entire glaze on the ham while it was cooking and used a baster to suck up the glaze, I did this every 10 minutes and the result was amazing!! I will always use this whenever I am going to cook ham! Thank you for sharing!
used crock pot lined with foil - basted every half hour or so - excellent!!!  
I had a 10lb ham and there was plenty of glaze for it.  This was very good.
I've not tried this recipe.. yet. But I'm sure I'll love it! I just wanted to comment and thank Cookeratheart for the tip on not using corn syrup. My sister found out a couple of years ago that she is allergic to corn and all of corn products, so this was a huge help! Thanks Cookeratheart. =)
Everybody loved it! Simple to make, excellent flavor and guests coulndt wait for dinner. I used ground cloves in my basting sauce. I microwaved the mixture once till melted and added cloves. I basted every 15-20 minutes and I had 18 lbs ham. It was delicious. I was close to the honey bake ham without the price tag ! I will stick with this receipe. 
Loved the sauce!! It's tradition to add cherries and pineapple to our ham so I did that and basted the whole thing with sauce. It tasted so good no one could stop eating it!! Next time though I'll half the sauce as I had a lot leftover.
So good! We will use this recipe from now on! Made this for Christmas and even though I used less of the ingredients, it was still super delicious!!
Hate to say this & rate like I did, but I didnt follow recipe like I normally do. Was great though. Skipped the cloves didnt have any, used brown sugar cause I didnt have dark corn syurp, only light. Followed someone elses suggestion & used oven bag, worked wonderfully. Froze leftover ham diced up to use for omlets & such. Gave GREAT flavor to the ham. Thanks! Will use recipr again.
Would it be bad to drink this glaze?! I don't add the cloves just as a personal preference and it still tastes amazing. I used a spiral cut ham and the glaze seeped down into the crevices nicely.
Made this yesterday for my son's 21st birthday. As suggested by someone, I let it marinate over night in the glaze, then only needed to baste 3 times once in the oven. Used the leftover glaze for an orange sauce, served with corn on the cob and buttermilk biscuits. Everybody was raving about how good this was. Our guests asked, when I'll cook this again. For dessert I had pumpkin pie and the Warm Apple Buttermilk Custard Pie (both recipes from this site). Son, daugther, guests, all were happy. Guests even took leftovers home to enjoy another bite today. Thanks also to other reviewers for their input. Will make again.
Made this for thanksgiving, it was the first i ever made ham and it came out really good =)
The glaze is great! I changed it a little, but the foundation the still the same.
Great Ham!  I added a touch of jamaican rum and some orange juice.  I also put a halved orange in the pan, really good taste.
I made this for Christmas dinner and I too cut the recipe in half,used ground cloves, and substituted the corn syrup for brown sugar, and it was the best homemade ham i have ever had. I used a spiral cut ham.There was barely any leftovers so i went to the store to buy another one and make again just to have leftovers. I will be getting rid of my old ham recipe. This will definately be a recipe that I hand down to my kids and the only ham I will ever make on holidays, everyone loved it and couldnt stop grabbing a piece as they walked by it all evening. Thanks for a great recipe.
Wonderful recipe! And SOOO easy! I did as other suggested & used brown sugar in place of the syrup. Instead of using whole cloves, I added about a tsp of ground cloves to the honey mixture. Also, only basted every 20 minutes. Turned out awesome. Everyone at Easter dinner went back for 2nd's!
Oh WOW!!!  I just made this for a family dinner and EVERYONE raved!!!  I omitted the cloves (yuck!) and nobody missed them-in fact, they agreed it was better than it would have been with the cloves.  SAVE THIS RECIPE!!!
This recipe saved me this past Xmas!  First time I made ham and cooked it for 15 people. Super easy recipe too! I had many compliments that they thought it was better than the ones my guests have had from the Honeybaked ham store!  I modified the recipe just a little bit (due to my laziness) and loosely covered the ham with foil and let it sit in pineapple juice and water (only about 3/4 of an inch). I only basted one time after I took off the foil after 1 hour of baking.  I think left the foil off and cooked another 15 minjutes and followed the recipe to broil the last 5 minutes.... yum, yum...delicious!
First time making ham and everyone loved it! I went off this recipe and a glazed ham recipe also on this site. (just for the glaze tho) I Used a spiral smoked ham and for tge glaze I added natural hickory liquid smoke, and worcestershire. I also used brown sugar instead of the corn syrup. I also used ground cloves instead of whole, which I smothered the ham in before basting. I did taste test the glaze until I had a flavor explosion in my mouth so I recommend TASTE TESTING! If you want a salter less sweet ham use more worcestershire and liquid smoke, if you want a sweeter ham use more honey and brown sugar. I did baste every 10 minutes. I cooked it in a roasting pan lined with foil. and thee juices left over make a very nice ham dipping sauce!
Everyone raved about this ham!
My ham was so moist and delicious!!  I used a 10 lb. ham, so had to increase the cooking time accordingly, but this recipe made the perfect amount of glaze for it.  I added about 1/4 cup brown sugar after the butter was all melted in with the honey and corn syrup.  Also, I didn't measure but my honey was a 12 oz. bottle so I don't think it was two cups, but I figured it wouldn't make a big difference.
I fixed this ham and it was great. Did take a little time, but well worth it. I also added some brown sugar to the receipe. My family and guest loved it. I will be using it again for sure!
I did this recipe all on my own and I am 18. I used a 3 lb classic ham and scored it my self.... I then did the same exact recipe and only used a hand full of cloves. (mind you I have small hands) I then glazed the ham every ten minutes... With generous amounts. I did bake it and it came it juicey and delectable. Best ham I have ever tried! Love thus recipe!
This was delicious.  Used 1/3 c. butter (but that was too much) - use 1/4 c next time.  Used 1/4 c agave b/c I didn't have honey.  And used 1/2 c brown sugar.  Scored and added cloves.  Used a 3 lb hatfield classic ham.  Cooked on top of carrots in glass baking pan (agave didnt burn like issue with honey).  Basted every 15 min, cooked for 1 hr 15 min.  Served with Gratin potatoes.
It was yummy, but I hoping for more of a spice than the cloves gave it. Next time I might put the cloves in with the sauce to cook a while.
This was ok. Nothing like the chain store brand taste though. Most likely will not do again.
Incredible flavor! I used this with a spiral, basted it frequently (15 min.) while getting it between the slices as much as possible. While baking and carving, I could not keep my family out of it! Fantastic and SO easy!
i tried it my mouth was water, when i was eating the ham i was drooling it was so good
loooove!  it was a big hit at my family Christmas get together. this makes a lot, but better too much than not enough.
Good Lord, no ham should be served WITHOUT this glaze! oh, it melted in our mouthes, and the presentation was to die for. My guests were soooooo impressed!
thank you so much for such a wonderful recipe!
This is an awesome start! Basically, i didn't have the dark corn syrup, so i relied on Mrs. Buttersworth (everyone has to have her in the cupboard), probably used about 1 cup. Used 1 cup of honey, same amount of butter and seasoned the sauce with ground cloves, since i didn't have the whole cloves.  During the baking process, i made sure that the drippings were moist with water (not too much to overpower the drippings)and made a nice thick sauce for the ham. Fantastic! Will definately make again.
Like the other reviewers, this was way too much glaze.... and I had an 8 pound ham.  Half the recipe would have been enough.  I used honey, brown sugar, and butter... no cloves, they aren't my favorite spice unless I'm eating a cookie !  The glaze was thick and easily stayed on the ham everywhere I basted it.  And the folks that said to line the pan were so correct... this glaze sets up in the pan very hard.  The glaze had a really nice taste and made a perfect presentation of my ham.  I will used this recipe over and over again.
This was my 3rd Easter using this recipe - and the ham has always been good and moist.  Will probably use it again next year.
I cooked this for Christmas dinner and my husband & sons loved it!  but it was a little too sweet for me.....  Next time I may use just half the syrup and honey to see how it come out.
Love it! I make this every year for both thanksgiving and Christmas and its a huge hit every time! I don't use too many cloves and I remove them all after ham is cooked and before I slice. I serve this sliced and than drizzle extra sauce I set aside over the top! YUM!! I have a house of picky eaters and they love this.
this ham was amazing! sweet, and decadent, it got great reviews. However, the glaze did make a lot. I'm definitely going to cut it in half next time.
Very good flavor, easy.
Loved this glaze!! Following some of the suggestions, I did change slightly.  Skipped the whole cloves, added 1/4 tsp ground cloves, used only 1 cup of honey. Had a store bought pre-sliced spiral ham. After ham warmed in oven for about 30 minutes, I started basting.  Once warmed thru, I layered ham in a slow-cooker on warm, brushed w/ leftover glaze between layers.  My family and friends raved about it.  Said it was the best tasting ham they had ever had.  Living overseas, this was definitely "a taste of home."
I combined this recipe and another honey glazed recipe. Basicly omit the cloves on the ham and i mixed in a small amount of ground gloves with the brown sugar mix  I did not sautee the mix at all but did add corn syrup about 1/2 c. Baked the ham in a roaster for about 2 hours, lined with foil easy clean up. So i combined the corn syrup, honey, brown sugar, and gloves brushed ham with the mixture all over. Pinned pineapple slices on the ham with toothpicks and topped the tooth picks with merachino cherries. Poured the pineapple juice from the can over the whole ham. brushed the ham again with the honey mixture. While cooking i basted the ham about every 20 minutes. 1st ham i ever made and everyone said it was better then a honey baked!
Excellent recipe! The foil lining on the crockpot was a great tip. I would never attempt to make this without that step saver.  The spices were perfectly suited for e ham and it was devoured very quickly.
Delishious. Used butter, honey, brown sugar, ground cloves and honey. Cooked on stovetop until melted together. Kept warm until ready to baste.
I followed other reviewers' advice and used only 1/2 of the ingredients and there was still plenty left over.  Excellent ham recipe!
I don't know if it was my ham or I did something wrong, but this did not come out good at all.  I altered the recipe to some of the other suggestions, but we were not impressed and my ham was dry.  Sounded like it would be delicious, sorry it wasn't for us.
Very good. I had a 14.5 pound ham and I used a disposable baking pan which worked great.  I cut the honey in half per another reviewer and used a little extra butter. I also used ground cloves rather than whole ones.  The glaze was very sweet to taste and I was a bit nervous at how it would turn out but it was excellent.  The ham was moist and juicy.  I would definitely use this recipe again.
very good basic recipe makes a lovely juicy ham!
Followed te recipe exactly, cooked it in an oven bag and flipped the bag (flipped glaze in bag) every 15 minutes.  Was very messy, bag got holes, actually will just glaze normally next time.  If the glaze is kept warm it will not separate.  Was yummy. About average I would say.
I followed other reviewers advice and substituted brown sugar for the dark syrup.  This was an excellent glaze and so easy!
This is the second year in a row that I make this ham for thanksgiving.  Last year the dinner was at my home and everyone loved it.  This year, we had it at my sister in law's who claims to have the best ham recipe in the family.  I had many requests for me to bring this so I did.  My ham was gone before everyone even sat down for dinner!   Everyone kept sneaking into the kitchen to take a small bite.  The ham my sister in law made was barely even touched!  I felt bad for her, but was very proud!!!
I made this recipe for Christmas. I loved it and so did the family. Very easy to use. Forgot one thing though. Some of the other posters said that this recipe made too much sauce. I forgot about that and I did have too much. Of course there is the old saying, "Better to have too much than too little!"  :0)
After a vote the family decided this was a 4. I made the full batch of glaze and put the ham (8 lb) in a bag and rotated it every 15 to 20 minutes for 2 hours . Looking back I would not do that again. The ham was very juicy however do you know how hard it is to rotate an 8 lb slippery ham in a piping hot bag? I burnt myself at least four times. Next time I will follow the directions and baste it as suggested.  Everyone loved the ham and there was almost no leftovers because so many people took some home with them! I will make this again.
Delicious!  My honey just finished the last of the honey-baked ham - I'll make this version again!  I did use honey and some dark corn syrup that was 10 years old - it didn't seem to matter.
I will never purchase an expensive store bought honey ham again after making this.  Used 1/4 c. of brown sugar in place of corn syrup, cloved the ham on the top and bottom, cooked the pig in a bag, after lining the roasting pan with foil.  Basted by flipping him every 20 minutes.  This was the most moist ham I have ever had and I think a lot had to do with cooking it in the bag.  Using the bag as our "baster" also cut down on the work to baste.   One tip to not forget:  LINE YOUR PAN WITH FOIL.  Clean up on this sticky mess would be gruesome without this step.  The flavor was incredible, the meat was extremely moist and the ham was a great value and went very far.  Thanks Collen for making our dollars stretch further, at the same time as teaching me how to get a better taste than the pros!
This ham was fabulous!
This glaze IS fantastic. Had a five pound ham and made half the glaze using the brown sugar and a little powdered cloves. Everyone raved and it is soooo easy. When frying up leftover ham for a sandwich, the flavor is unbeatable and no exotic ingredients needed. So happy to find this, definitely compares well to an expensive honey glazed ham. Those things have become unaffordable to most folks. I am better off than most and I wince at the cost of those things.Family loved it.
It was my first ham ever.  I skipped the cloves and added a little pineapple juice to the syrup.  4 people--7 lb ham was gone in a day and a half!!
Incredible recipe--enough said!
The best ham I ever made!!!  I used about 1/2 cup of brown sugar instead of the syrup.  I also used 1 t of ground cloved.  I used an oven bag like someone suggested.  I warmed all my ingredients and slowly poured it over the scored ham (I scored deep)and put it in the fridge the day before I baked it. The next day I just popped the ham in the oven, I turning the ham in the bag every 15 min. 
I decided to use this recipe for Easter. I used a spiral cut ready-to-eat 9lb ham. The only changes I made was adding about 2T. Dijon mustard to the glaze and I used 1/2 cup brown sugar and a 1/2 cup light caro syrup. I also substituted whole cloves for 1/4 tsp ground clove. UNBELIEVABLE recipe. It was easily as good or even better than a store bought honey baked ham. Thank you so much for the submission!  OH and, the cloves (either whole or ground) are a MUST. I must admit, the Dijon mistard was a delicious addition as well.
I just made this recipe for the third time, so I thought perhaps I should add my two cents worth.  This has been delicious everytime.  I also cut the glaze ingredients in half and there is still plenty.
We tried this out at Easter and I'm pretty sure it's the best ham we've had.
I made a change to the receipe.  I used 1/3 cup brown sugar instead of the corn syrup, 1/2 cup honey and 1/2 cup Feista Raspberry Jalapeno Marinate.  The glaze was terrific.  Will do this again.
I made this for Easter dinner and everone commented on how good it was! I did as others suggested and substituted the syrup for brown sugar. I also cut the recipe in half, which was exactly enough (10 lbs pre-cooked ham). I did't mind basting every 15 minutes....I thought it was well worth it!
Awesome!  The glaze is wonderful!  I make this every Easter!
EXCELLENT, MADE THIS FOR EASTER.  THE HONEY MIX WAS ALSO GREAT BRUSHED OVER THE ROLLS!WHO WOULD HAVE THOUGHT!?
This is an excellent recipe.  I used brown sugar instead of Karo syrup and it is wonderful.  I had an 8 lb ham yet I had a lot of glaze left over.  I liked the cloves also.  I used my small roaster instead of the oven which helped save room for other items as spoon bread, green bean casserole, roasted potatoes.
Everyone LOVED this at Christmas and said how moist it was!
Wonderful recipe. Everyone loved this recipe.  Will make again for next holiday!!
I cooked the ham a little longer to achieve a darker skin, and sprinkled some brown sugar on the ham about 20 minutes before it was ready to come out. The taste was delicious and it looked beautiful.
This was fantastic! I've never had a Honey Baked from the store so I had no point of reference. But the ham turned out absolutely perfect, my guys positively loved it, and I'm one happy camper.
Everyone loved it and said they liked it better than honey-baked.  I exchanged half the corn syrup for molasses and it gave it a more smoky flavor :)
Great recipe! My made it for Thanksgiving, and my family loved it. I took other reviewers' advices, I used the brown sugar and the honey instead of the corn syrup. Next time, I will add a little mustard for extra kicks.
OMG!!! I combined several readers suggestions for this recipe and the ham turned out fantastic.  I used a 6# boneless ham.  The glaze ingredients were: 1/4 cup dark brown sugar, 1 cup honey, 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves and 2/3 cup butter.  I ended up making more glaze half way through because I applied it every 25 minutes. I'd suggest doubling the ingredients so you have enough glaze.  Cooked and kept the glaze warm in a double boiler and applied it to the ham with a silicone basting brush.  Also cooked it in a large oval crockpot with a removable liner (a BIG thank you to who ever invented those).  With the crockpot set on low it took about 6 1/2 hours to cook.  Oh, also followed the suggestion to put baby carrots in the bottom of the pot before adding the ham.  They were so tasty! The ham was very moist and did taste like a certain honey glazed ham we all know so well.
Too sweet
I used brown sugar instead or corn syrup. I used it with ham slices instead of a whole ham and it was really great!
Just made this excellent recipe for our Easter Dinner today.  This was only the third time I have ever made a ham as ham is not a favorite food in our house.  But, I could not say enough as everyone devoured it with oh's and ah's! I used an 8 pound spiral cut, bone-in fully cooked ham.  I made only half the glaze recipe, which turned out to be more than enough.  And I used brown sugar instead of the dark corn syrup. I basted faithfully every 10-15 minutes. It cooked for 1 3/4 hours to get to 140 degree internal temperature. I did not even need to broil it at the end because the color was already exceptionally beautiful. The flavor was totally incredible.  Thanks for a great recipe; we will definitely make this again!
I don't write reviews often but this one deserves one! Like many others I substituted brown sugar for the dark corn syrup and halved the recipe and it rocked! I also added just a pinch of ground cloves and two pinches of ground ginger to this and everyone loved it! Thanks so much for the wonderful recipe!
I make this omiting the cloves just for the simple reason I never have them on hand and it is absolutely delicious every time!
This recipe is wonderful, I made it for Easter and it was a big hit!  I used the exact ingrediants, but modified the cooking method.  Instead of baking, I put this in the slow cooker for 6 hours on low....turned out great!
Takes a lot of attention, but its worth it if you have the time.
This was very good! I was looking for a ham recipe made for a non-spiral cooked ham for years now and this was delicious! I used the brown sugar instead of corn syrup like other had recommended as I did not have the corn syrup and it turn out perfect! Make sure and follow the basting rules and if you have a large ham just cut it into 2 large pieces and proceed. This will cut down of the heating time.
i followed reviewers advice. i used the crockpot on low. it was a little dry. i would say it only needs four hours on low, and no more than 5 at the max. everyone loved it though!
They are right, it tastes like a honey baked ham. I took others suggestions and used an oven bag. I mixed all the ingredients put them in the oven bag with my ham and turned it every 20 mintues. I did not use cloves.
With everything else I was cooking for dinner, I didn't like having to baste every 15 minutes.  I wouldn't broil the last few minutes either.  It made the outside very dark and hard.  The flavor didn't seem to get into the rest of the meat.  The ham turned out good, but not worth all the effort.
Very tasty.  I normally cook this on the bar-b-que.
DON"T buy Honey baked ham anymore, this is very easy and it tastes just like HBH
key is to baste. very flavorful
I made this for Christmas along with a turkey, and surprisingly (being the turkey-lover that I am) I liked this ham WAY more! I bought a mesquite smoked spiral cut ham, pre-cooked. I used the leftover glaze by adding a small bag of baby carrots and letting it cook on medium for about 20 minutes or until the carrots were soft. Next year, I'm not even bothering with making a turkey for Christmas. This will be the recipe foe years to come!
This was my first time making a ham and I made it for a Christmas dinner last year and it came out awesome. I did take the other reviewers advise and used brown sugar instead of corn syrup. Everyone at the party loved it!!
I omitted the corn syrup, and it was still delicious! Got a lot of compliments from my son. I will make this again.
We have no ham left. This is the perfect dinner and having leftovers.
THIS WAS A HIT!!! my family love this for our Christmas dinner. Instead of corn syrup i used brown sugar (like other reviews) with a bit (1/4 cup) more honey. I basted every 10-20 mins for about an hour.
I use a bone in spiral cut ham during the holidays (usually takes 2x as long to bake due to the bigger size), and my family loves and raves over it.  I also sub brown sugar for the dark corn syrup and exclude the whole cloves (everyone complained about them the first time).    
Perfect at Easter with my 5# ham. I bought a Boars Head ham and it was a beautiful ham. I made Green Bean Bundles from this site-looked like a gourmet meal!
My very first ham -- with fabulous reviews!   Simple, moist, delicious!
Wonderful.  Next time I'll try using ground cloves instead.
I got rave reviews from my family at Easter when I served this ham.  One tip: I used a small fondue pot to keep the glaze warm between bastings.  Fabulous flavor!
This ham was great. I used a Smithfield spiral ham and ground cloves instead of whole ones. And I took the advice from everyone else and used brown sugar instead of corn syrup. I will definitely make this again for our next occasion.
I did this as a last minute change to my usual ham glaze and I'm really glad I did.  It was wonderful.  I used an 8 lb. spiral ham and lots of whole cloves.  Based on other reviewer recommendations and lack of dark corn syrup, I used 1/2 c. brown sugar, 1/3 c. butter and ~1/3 c. honey.  I cooked the ham at 325 degrees about 60 minutes, basted every 10-12 minutes and it was perfect - moist and delicious!
I used a 8lb. Smithfield ham for this. Used very little ground cloves, about 1/4 cup dark corn syrup, 1/2 brown sugar, 8tbsps butter and about 1/4 cup honey. I baked in the oven for about 5 hours with a lid on at 325. I basted as often as i coculd remember and by hour 5 the Ham was so soft and tender! Flavor wise was good! Not too sweet and just the right amount of saltyness from the ham. Will be keeping this recipe!
It was the first time I glazed a ham and it was very good and very simple to do.  thanks for the recipe.
DON'T USE A CHEAP HAM...The concept was great, I scored the ham like the recipe suggested but the glaze never got past the first inch of the ham. seems if you cooked it in a crock pot it would be a better result.  I may try this again but my first try was disappointing.
I chose to make this ham for Easter. Hubby said it was the best ham he had ever ate in his life and then went outside to try and push some great tasting ham on the neighbors! I think he was impressed..
I mixed all up and put ham in cooking bag with glaze and just turned the bag over and around every 15 minutes or so... eliminates having to scrub off the sticky sauce out of the roaster.... Awesome glaze recipe!
This was a very tasty ham!  Thanks!
I made this for New Years and it was wonderful..didn't use near as many cloves as it called for and it was still good.  They hurt my fingers to poke them in so i stopped...
This turned out so good.  I replaced the corn syrup with brown sugar and did not have whole cloves so I used ground cloves. Double lined my baking sheet with foil for easy cleanup. Will make again.
My husband and boys really liked this glaze.  I only tried this recipe because I was out of OJ for the recipe I normally use.  I am so glad I was out!!  I cut the recipe down because I had ham slices not a whole ham.  I mixed a pinch of ground cloves into the glaze.  I baked the ham slices in the glaze until warm.  This is definitely one I will be using on the holidays!
This was ok, but just ok. I halved the glaze, and had plenty. Used a baking bag to reduce the mess, but it was still kind of sticky. I have to say that it was nice and easy, but I just wasn't that excited about it.

Update - made this again. I guess I just needed some practice, not to mention a higher quality ham! It was fabulously moist. Definitely need that oven bag though. That kept the pan perfectly clean this time, and I didn't have to baste, which left me available to visit with my guests while the ham took care of itself. Also used brown sugar instead of corn syrup and halved the amount of glaze.
Made this for Christmas dinner this evening - turned out great in roaster.  I halved the ingredients and basted every half hour or so.  Easy peasy...
I have made this several times. I have been using 1/2 c of brown sugar instead of the corn syrup, and I add a few pineapples on top of the ham and add a little pineapple juice to the glaze. I use a shank portion ready to eat ham, and bake it like the recipe says. Recently, I tried the slow cooker method and used the spiral slice ham due to time restrictions. Personally, I like baking it better. The slow cooker method, I cooked on low for 6 hours, and it seemed a bit dry. Also, I like my glaze to be a bit sticky and I didnt get that using the slow cooker. Wonderful recipe! I cant make this ham without adding baby carrots to the bottom of the pan. They come out sooo good with this glaze!
Awesome!!
Excellent and MUCH cheaper than buying a honey ham from "you know who".  It is a bit messy to prepare.
This recipe was FANTASTIC!  I read through some of the reviews and thought since I was taking this to a friends for Easter, I might try baking in an oven bag.  Having never used them before, I just bought a box and didn't think much of it.  A word of advice on the oven bags - make sure yours do not contain VENT HOLES... Let's just say it was not my brightest moment when I tried "flipping" the ham.  Luckily, the glaze stayed inside the pan, even though it eventually seeped out of the bag through those pesky vent holes.  Next time I will try it in my crockpot.  Tastewise - this ham was EXCELLENT!  We had a crowd of about 15 people for Easter who said they loved the clove flavor.  I was surprised how much it actually permeated through the ham.  We used a half-ham - not presliced.  I didn't even score the ham, but the flavor really seeped into the meat.  A winner and a keeper!!  Thanks for the recipe.  :)
Excellent flavor.  I only used about half of the glaze, and I had a 10 pound ham, so I think you can easily only make half the recipe and still have more than enough.  Next time, I'll skip the 5 minutes under the broiler.  It may be outside of the ham too hard, in my opinion.  Great flavor.  Will keep this one.
Delicious and easy! Rave reviews by all. Per previous reviews, I halved the glaze and it was the perfect amount for the 6lb semi-boneless ham I had. I also use ground cloves instead of whole cloves. This will definitely be my new "go to" recipe for Easter ham. Thanks!
Fabulous!  I basted it in the crock pot on low for 4 hours (a spiral ham).  Had to cut some off to fit in the crock pot but well worth it!  I also put as many baby carrots that would fit after placing the ham inside.  Basted every 20 minutes or so.  Be sure to a little glaze to the side and brush on right before carmelizing under the broiler for 4-5 minutes.  Rave revies and my boyfriend LOVED the carrots!
Turned out great!  I used 1 cup honey, brown sugar in place of the corn syrup and ground cloves.  The drippings made an awesome gravy.
I wouldn't reccommend broiling at the end, burned mine... had I not done that wouldve given it 5 stars!
It is very time consuming though, basing it ever 25 minutes for the entire cook time.  But very good.
My husband loved this!!! I flowed the comments and cooked it in the crockpot and basted it every 30mins.  It was very moist and so easy!!!  I used brown sugar instead of dark cornsyrup and only 1 cup of honey and had plenty!!
i ran out of honey so i could only do half the amount called for, but i used the recipe amount for the rest, and this turned out to be the best ham i have ever had in my entire life. the best. entire life.
I liked it, but I think I've worn my children out on it cause they wouldn't eat the ham the last time I made it. May only use this recipe for holidays or special occasions.
This was great!!!  Instead of spiral cutting it I just cut across the top of it horizontaly so it would hold more juice - I also put 4 deep cuts right into the middle and poored straight honey down into those to make it extra sweet!!!  It was great!!  A HUGE hit!!!!! A+++++ for this recipe!
This is for the folks who read reviews, like myself.  This recipe is good the way it is written, not good if you follow a certain review (12/30/06).  I always read the reviews before I make a recipe, and this time it backfired on me.  It was dry, NOT because the crock pot was put on high, but because she halved the glaze.  DO NOT HALVE THE GLAZE!!  I put my ham in the crock pot on low, halved the glaze like a fellow member had suggested and it came out dry.  I even put my timer on every 25 minutes to baste.  It would have been perfect if I left this recipe alone.  Will try again...with the recipe in its entirety.
Taste is great. Needs to be scored before starting to cook.  Follow some of the reviews, and use brown sugar, honey and butter.  Thickens really fast.  Best to brush on, frequently.
I give it 5 stars.  DH gives is 4. I love it and will not stand in line for honey baked ever again.  That being said, while its a great honey glazed recipe, it is not a Honey Baked ham.  There are marked differences.  
I made this for our Easter dinner yesterday.  It was wonderfully flavorful and juicy.  I made a 5 lb. ham and only made 1/3 of the glaze recipe.  I had just the right amount.  I served the drippings from the ham as a syrup for the ham after it was sliced.  Will definitely be adding this to my holiday recipe file.
Another Rave review!  Didn't have cloves, and used brown sugar instead of corn syrup as many recommended - but we were very pleased with the end result.
This was excellent.  I substituted brown sugar for the Karo syrup.  It was plenty for an 8+ lb ham.  I prepared it for a New Year's Eve dinner for a couple that came over with their two children.  They loved it . . . plus, they enjoyed helping put the cloves into the ham and helping "paint" it every 15 minutes.  I used the ham bone from this recipe for the Allrecipes.com recipe "Bean Soup".
I burned the top when I broiled it, so I cut it off and then put the top end on bottom.  It really made the juices soak up the basting juices and it was the best ham my family had ever eaten. My husband wants me to cut the top off every time.
Loved this! I didn't have whole cloves, so I just put 1/4 t ground cloves in the glaze, I substituted brown sugar for corn syrup, and added 1/4 c pineaplle juice. I also cooked my ham in a smoked porter beer (sugessted from another recipe on this sight) and kept the cover on until the very end and then took it off and let it carmelize. It was out of this world! This will be the only way I will prepare ham from now on.
Very good!
I did not find this was worth the extra effort.  It added some flavour but not much.
I made this for our Easter ham, the glaze is really good.  Will definately use it from now on.  The glaze somehow got through the heavy-duty foil I lined the pan with, and it's not a fun clean-up so I may try the oven bag idea next time.  If your ham isn't 5 lbs., you can time it  at 15 minutes per lb. or use a meat thermometer to 140 degrees.
It was so time comsuming and I  didn't think it was that good.  I had a spiral sliced ham, and really based it every 15 min. Think I will go back to the brown sugar and pineapple glaze.  The best ham so far  cooked in the crock pot, with brown sugar and crushed pineapple.
Have made this several times now and every time people love it. I am not a ham lover, but even I enjoy the sweet taste.
This was by far the best ham I have ever had and was a huge hit with my extended family who asked why we don't have ham more often.  Highly recommended!
Waste of honey 2 cups too much !
We loved this.  Delicious!
Have made many hams - and this was by far the best so far.  I used (keep in mind I halved it) 1/4 tsp of ground cloves, 1/4 c of brown sugar instead of the corn syrup, 1 cup of honey and I actually did about the same amount of butter as if I made the full amount. Basted every 25 mins as suggested by others!
Per some other reviews, I replaced the corn syrup with brown sugar, otherwise I followed the recipe exactly.  And this recipe was fantastic -- it turned in inexpensive ham into a beautiful centerpiece for our holiday dinner!  I was amazed at how attractive even a plain old ham could look when scored and pierced with the cloves.  And the glaze is thin, but it's still yummy, shiny, and gorgeous!  Thanks for a great recipe idea!
Yummy recipe.I substituted, like others, brown sugar for the syrup and added a little pineapple juice to the mixture, along with pineapple slices "toothpicked" to the ham.Turned out great!
This glaze is AMAZING!!  I'm lazy so didn't use a double boiler the last several times I've used this recipe - I just kept a close eye on the little saucepan I was using and stirred it up every time I noticed it while prepping all my side dishes and adjusted the knob on the stove to keep it from caramelizing in the pan.   Half the time I had the burner off & only turned it in again to loosen and smooth the glaze out again right before I brushed the ham.  

This is now MY recipe for making ham!  (Thank you Miss Colleen!!)
This was my first time ever making a ham, so I was a bit wary on using this honey glaze. However, I am very glad I used this recipe. Like others I also used brown sugar instead of corn syrup, and I had to double the recipe as my ham was 10 pounds. My husband and I both loved the ham. It was sweet, but not too sweet. The only reason I gave it four stars was because the broiling part burnt part of the ham instead of caramelizing it. All in all though it was a very delicious ham still and I will be using this recipe for all holiday dinners.
Perfect Holiday style ham, tried it last night and it came out great in the oven.  Will use a slow cooker next time to get the ham really saturated and then throw it under the broiler for 5 minutes to carmalize it.
This is the only way to make honey baked ham anymore in my house.  We've been using this recipe for years -- thank you for sharing it!
Good flavor, I didn't rate it higher b/c 4 me it had too much butter, next time I will reduce by 1/2
Absolutely FABULOUS!!!  I was scared since it was my first time ever making a ham... but this recipe is perfect as written.  I took it to Easter dinner with my in-laws, who don't really like/eat ham, and they LOVED it!!!  THANK YOU
I used brown sugar instead of corn syrup.The recipe was really good though.
I first tried this recipe on Easter.  It is by far the best ham glaze that I have tried.  I also used the brown sugar instead of the syrup.  I have made this 4 times since Easter and everyone loves it.
We had our usual Christmas Eve Dinner.  My wife fixed the ham with the Honey Glazed recipe.  The kids and grandkids all had favorable comments.  Thanks Colleen, it was delicious.
Made this for Easter.  Very delicious and a big hit with the family.
Wonderful recipe!!   I will never buy a honey glazed ham again! (What a savings$$!) Everyone loved it.  I used the brown sugar instead of karo syrup and 1/4 teas of ground cloves.  Thank you so much for sharing your winner recipe.  Best ham we've ever had.
This recipe was absolutely delicious.  I was kind of stuck with what our commissary had around the holidays, so I subbed brown sugar and light corn syrup instead of the dark, and used two 2-pound hams.  It still turned out great.  The glaze was a little more than we could use within the cooking time, but I'd rather have too much than too little. We got to eat the leftovers in sandwiches and other dishes, too!  Yum yum yum!
For this recipe, it's not so much as the ham as it is the glaze itself that is the star.  I did not use a ready to eat ham but rather bought a standard bone in ham that was not spiral cut or glazed.  This glaze really made the smoked ham special and unique....everyone flipped over the taste!  Not to mention the ham I bought saved me bunches of money and I was able to buy a much bigger one than the convenience hams (unless that is what you are looking for...).
Unbelievable taste.  We only had 4 people over for dinner so I bought an expensive small, pre-packaged ham and followed the recipe.  The taste was amazing and I am no longer afraid to make a ham for a fancy dinner.  I have tried many different glazes before but after this one, they are no longer in my recipe box.  Enjoy!!!
Some recipes need to be tried!  I was rather skeptical even with all the great reviews.  However, this has to be one of the best recipes for ham ever!  Granted I did substitute for the dark corn syrup and I did make less than required.  But the key....baste, baste, baste!  The melt in your mouth taste of the ham is one that you will appreciate.  Even the left overs were wonderful.  Actually, they didn't last very long!  I will say one thing though, listen to what everyone says about cleaning up honey!
I used ground cloves - and broiled it for a few mins to get coating crispy.  Took the ham to husband's fire station for their party... everyone loved it ! 
Have you ever seen an entire ham devoured and literally picked off the bone? Well make this ham recipe and you will! I made this for Christmas and it was a huge hit. The only change I made was to use brown sugar instead of corn syrup. It was fabulous.
I forgot to buy the Dark Corn Syrup so I substitued Brown Sugar and it was great!
I made this just as written minus the cloves.  Tasted professional!
Not that this needs a another 5 star review, but this rocks! Tastes better than a Honey Baked and sooo much cheaper. Used a Cooks spiral cut. $17 compared to $60! YUMMY. Baste Baste Baste as another reviewer said. I basted about every 15 minutes.
Cooking a 'fully cooked/ready-to-eat' ham will most likely dry it out.  The spiral sliced type you buy (regardless of brand) is already fully cooked.  Re-baking will simply dry it out.  Glaze recipe works great on hams that require baking which is what I do.
I got a 10 lb spiral cut ham for New Year's Day that came with a glaze packet. After looking at the ingredients (e.g. three different artificial colors), I decided to look at all recipes for something better. Made some mods recommended by others - used 1 cup clover honey, 2/3 cup butter and 1/4 cup brown sugar; also dropped the cloves - don't like them on ham. Turned out pretty good. 
This recipe was very tasty. I baked a ham this thanksgiving for my very first time and although I did not baste it as frequently as the recipe require we could still taste the "honey" ham. I was surprised to find that all the ham was gone the next day since wasting ham had become a tradition in my family. Thanks! This recipe was great!!
This was an AMAZING recipe!! My husband loved it and my 5 yr old daughter ate seconds!! She has been confirmed as the worls pickiest eater haha. I will definately be making this again for family dinners. Thanks a million for sharing.
I thought this was good.  I tried cooking my 8 lb ham in a bag and turning it with the sauce inside, like other reviewers suggested, but it was a serious pain to flip the bag every 15-20 minutes.  Not to mention I was afraid of the bag ripping and/or popping and exploding hot honey sauce all over my oven!  The outer layer of my ham tasted good, but the inner wasn't as tender, so maybe next year I'll try it in my roaster.
I used the cooking bag like others suggested and it turned out wonderful!!
Wonderful.  Just wonderful.  Maybe a little sweet.
I love, love, love this recipe!  Having used it for several years I find it's not only wonderful as is but easily lends itself to the 'playing' so many of us like to do.  I've subbed orange marmalade for 2/3 of the Karo .  . added 1 1/4 tsp cinnamon to that along with ground cloves, used currant jelly or cherry preserves.  I've added 1-1/2 tsp of ground mustard to the glaze.  I do always use ground cloves because I dislike messing with poking holes and inserting cloves.  So! Enjoy and use your imaginations .  .  . and thank you, colleen, for sharing!
I read through all 200 and something comments before I made this.  I was very skeptical.  One person commented if you don't like the smell of the mixture, you won't like the taste.  VERY TRUE!  We made this and I wasn't impressed.  Didn't taste like the honey baked kind at all.  I'm not a big honey person, so that could have been part of the reason I didn't like it.  I used a lot of brown sugar to cover the honey taste but the flavor didn't work for me.
Great recipe, but I only use 1 cup of honey and it makes more than I use on an 8-10 lb ham.
I've been making this recipe for the last 5+ years, it's the best.  I use a little less than 1/4 c cloves and I always buy a 1/2 spiral ham.  Then I take all the drippings and left over ham and make the Ham and Bean Soup II recipe.  I put the drippings in the frig and scrap off the fat the next day and I use great northern beans.  Delicious!
Excellent ham. Easy recipe. I bought a spiral cut ham at $1.70 per pound and it was perfect (if you like ham, that is). Juicy to the bone. I did leave out the cloves because I was afraid it might taste too clove-y and cut the sauce in half.
A family favorite!
If you don't like the smell of the mixture don't use this on your good ham.  it tastes just like it smells.
This was excellent!  I made this as our Thanksgiving dinner and everyone loved the taste.  I did half the ingredients and ended up with more than enough.
I make this every Christmas. I have never tasted a better ham! Make sure you scorn the ham and add the cloves. The cloves really bring out the flavor so don't skip them.
I used brown sugar in leiu of dark syrup. Just like Honey Baked hams! And NOT as hard as I'd thought.
I am happy I tried this for Easter.  It's fabulous.  I of course followed everyone elses advice and used brown sugar instead of karo syrup.  I had a almost 11 lb. sprial sliced ham and the glaze was more than enough, I also put it in the crock pot for about 5 hours on high which actually was overcooked since the ham was already pre-cooked, but it was still very good and was so tender, I will make it in the crock pot again but put on low for that amount of time.  it also made room in the oven for all the other things needing to be in there.
I loved this recipe!! I made it for Easter dinner and it was so easy; my 20 yr old son said it was the best ham I ever made!  I guess he gave it 5 stars too!  I substituted dark maple syrup and brown sugar for the corn syrup.  You need to baste as it says and make sure you broil for the last five minutes to caramelize the glaze and you won't be disappointed.  We are loving the left overs for sandwiches.
This was a real hit with our family of 8 this Easter ... even with my son-in-law who doesn't like ham stated it was the best ham he ever ate and had thirds. It was delicious. Now, as my husband is diabetic although we are not as careful on holidays as we should be as he we watch his numbers we just substituted the corn syrup for 3/4 cup of Splenda Brown Sugar. 

I tented the ham for the first part of the cooking ... my ham was a lot larger (cooked it for 20 minutes per lb as it was a pre-cooked spiral ham). Then the last hour and a half I took off the foil and basted the ham liberally with the sauce every 15 minutes. I didn't broil it at the end as it didn't appear to need it. Let it rest for about 5-10 minutes after I pulled it out of the oven and everyone was thrilled from seniors to toddlers! This will be the ONLY ham we serve from now on! Loved it and so simple too!
I have used this recipe for the past two Christmas dinners - and I LOVE it!!! I cooked it in the CrockPot with baby carrots beneath it and it just DISAPPEARED yesterday!
I made a spiral sliced ham for Thanksgiving and used this glaze.  Everyone raved about how good the ham was.    I didn't measure out the cloves - I just used enough to cover the ham in places I thought they should go (evenly spread about the ham).  I'll definitely make this again - it was yummy!
Very good recipe. The taste imparted by the glaze was as good as any I have every had. The only thing I might change next time is cutting the amount of the glaze in half.
Followed Cookeratheart's advice and did in slow cooker. Came out awesome. Had some glaze left over so I added in some mustard and worcestershire and poured it over little sandwiches (kings hawaiian rolls, ham, provelone), baked @ 375 for 12min
Very tasty, with simple ingredients. I did cut the glaze ingredients in half, and since I didn't use a deep enough pan I had to dump some halfway through the cooking time because it was starting to overflow. Wonderful flavor though, thanks for a great recipe!
One of the juiciest, tastiest hams I have ever eaten! I used brown sugar in the glaze instead of corn syrup and a regular, inexpensive ham (not spiral cut).
This was just ok to me. I couldn't really taste the honey at all, which was really disappointing because I was looking forward to it. All I could taste were the cloves & I'm not a big fan of cloves. I may try again with some of the other reviewers suggestions, but probably not as written.
I used this on a spiral cut ham I made for Christmas dinner.  It was easy and delicious!  Everyone commented on how good the ham was!!!  Everyone had seconds!  I added water to the drippings and made great gravy!  I will definately make this again.
I made this recipe exactly as it directs.  It was easy and delicious!
This "home-style;laborous" looking and best of all tasting, Ham,is a time saver in the kitchen. This recipe is like the one you'd ordered from the real Co..
 My family loved it!!!! They actually thought I'd ordered it!!!
Really, really delicious!!
Wow! Tried Easter on a spiral ham..didn't follow recipe exactly..just combine about 3/4 c honey, about 1/2 c. golden corn syrup, 1 stick butter, stuck some cloves here & there. Then melted all and poured over ham which I wrapped in an oven bag as one indicated[didn't work..all the juices leaked onto covered pan]-no bother, just used my baster[plactic suction thing]and basted between some of the loose slices. My new oven cooks faster than older one, so simply got it hot..and let it rest. Never tasted ham so good..and I thought I was the Queen of Ham! Thanks so much for the basic ingredients and the enjoyment you brought.
No corn syrup, yuck.  Used light agave instead, it's healthier.
Tastes great!
Loved it!!  I used some brown sugar and no corn syrup, but otherwise all the same.  Sooo good!  All 4 of my kids loved it!!
I will definitely fix this ham again!  Everyone loved it!
This was great.  I had an 8 lb smoked 1/2 ham and cooked in with about 2 cups of pineapple juice and an inter thermometer at 325 with tinfoil tent till it reached 100 suggested by another veiwer. That took about 1 1/2 hrs.  I made 1/2 the glaze with the brown sugar, ommitted the cloves and basted every 15 minutes faithfully.  Cooking time total, 4 hrs.  when i started the basteing, i didn't use the tinfoil tent, it would have been a hassle.  basteing it made it juicy anyways.  the honey taste was throught the whole ham. No need to use the broiler.  Was a great honey ham.  Made it for easter.  thanks!!
Great recipe!!  I made this for Easter dinner,  and my relatives were all impressed.  Will make again.  Thanks!
I made this for christmas last year and i plan on making it again for christmas in a couple of weeks. This tasted sooooo good. I also included some rasins to give it a special touch. Everyone seemed to like it. I plan on adding apples to the rasins this year.
It was OK, but I was hoping for a "knock my socks off" ham.
I am NEVER going to Honey Baked Hams again. This is sooo much better than that!
husband loved it!  Easy and very good.
Oh my flipping goodness!  That's exactly what you say when you eat this Honey ham!!  LOL  It is so wonderful and I'd eat honey ham everyday if I could!!  I LOVE the way it turns out every time!
Family loved this ham glaze; 'best tasting ham ever' was the exact words out of my fathers mouth. Great for Easter!
Sweet but not too sweet.  Compliments every Easter when I make this!!!  I use a spiral or bone-in ham.
Unbelieveable!  We will never "waste" our money on a Honey Baked Ham again - this was fantastic.  We also cooked it in the slow cooker, basting it every 10-15 minutes and it turned out perfect!
delicious base recipe - I made some changes based on reviews - used 1/3 c brown sugar, 1/3 cup honey, 1/4 tsp crushed cloves..came out delicious
Loved this ham. I also used brown sugar in place of corn syrup. Added a whole bag of baby carrots, they were all gone. I should have added two bags. I cooked it all in a large size oven bag, inside a crockpot on low for several hours, just on warm the last hour. Fantastic. Also scored the ham, and just used 1 tsp of the ground cloves. The whole cloves would have added extra taste, I imagine both would be very good together. Excellent. Was just the right amount of glaze for a 6.5 pound butt ham. Makes a cheap cut excellent.
I used this recipe for Easter last year, and you can bet I'll be using it for this year!  I, personally, can take or leave ham, but this was so good, I have found myself craving it throughout the past year many times.  Wonderful recipe!!
I used this glaze for my Christmas ham and it was very well received. I used brown sugar instead of the corn syrup and ground cloves instead of whole. I halved the recipe and it was more than enough for my 5 lb. ham.
For an 18 year old, this must've been my greatest cooking endeavor.  I followed the recipe exactly, except with a few little suggestions everyone offered.  The whole family loved it. It was very very tasty and easy to make!  Im having orders for Christmas. ^^
Like many I used brown sugar instead of the corn syrup. In addition,  I put a small bed of baby carrots with a tiny drop of apple juice in the bottom of the pan to keep everything from sticky.  Extremely happy with results - use a poor quality ham - a piece ham with a leg bone in it.  Ham tasted amazing and I could of cut it with a spoon - very tender and moist.
Delicious and easy!  We followed some of the reviewers advice and used half the dark cornstarch and half brown sugar.  I think for our taste Ill use fewer cloves next time too.  The crowd we served raved about it though and Ill definitely make it again.
5 pounds ready-to-eat ham 
1/4 cup whole cloves 
1/4 cup brown sugar
1/2 to 1 cups honey 
2/3 cup butter 
This was amazing!  It turned out perfectly and tasted like I'd bought it directly from the store.  I halved the glaze recipe and it was still more than enough for a 7-lb ham.  I also substituted brown sugar for the dark corn syrup, like everyone else.  It was great!
This was awesome.  We followed the recipe to a T and it turned out great.  Definately will make again and recommend to others.
A huge crowd pleaser at Easter with lots of yummy leftovers.  I reserved the extra sauce and served on the side for people to spoon over their ham slices.  Yum!
This was a great ham glaze.  I sliced my ham before baking and I used brown sugar instead of corn syrup and skipped the cloves altogether.  The glaze was a tad runny so I added more brown sugar and boiled the glaze down some.  It was better the next day after sitting in the glaze.  Everyone loved it.  Thanks for a great recipe!
This was the best honey ham I've ever made and I will make it again and again.  Everyone loved it.  I made a few little changes - I used brown sugar in place of the corn syrup as suggested by other reviewers and used less butter (1/2 cup-one stick).  I also used a spiral sliced ham (9 lbs) and there was just the right amount of glaze.  Thank you for a wonderful recipe :-)
The best ham I ever had!!! Delicious!!
I made this for Easter dinner, everyone loved it. I left the cloves out, it still turned out great. It made great biscuit and cheese sandwhiches the next day.
Good, but not sure how much was this recipe. I think my ham would have been just as good w or WO this concoction
This was the first ham I have ever made and it was fantastic, juicy on the inside and the glaze was absolutely delicious.  I did half the glaze, and used 1/4 cup of Brown sugar instead of the syrup.  A great ham that I don't think i'll ever be able to beat.
AMAZING recipe! Like others, I changed the syrup for brown sugar. I used a 9lbs bone in spiral ham and halved all of the ingredients. Placed the ham in an oven bag and basked every 20 min and it came out D E L I C I O U S! Incredibly moist and full of flavor.
This was easy, even for a new cooker like me!
Very good and easy to make.  The ham was happy and so were my guests.
Made for Easter this year and it was outstanding....even folks that don't really care for ham loved it. Followed the recipe exactly other than cutting the basting sauce in half (only had 1 cup of honey) and it was perfect amount. I had a 6lb boneless ham....so tasty. It truly rivals it's expensive counterpart!
Used this recipe for my Easter Ham.  Both my husband and uncle  wanted to know what I done do the ham because the flavor was soooo good.  My husband said this is the only way to prepare a ham from now on and I agree.  Thanks Colleen:)
Nothing earthshattering, but good.  I think I will buy the ham pre-sliced nex time, because my issue has always been that no matter what I do or how long I work at it, the ham always tastes the same, like ham.  This was pretty mich the same, expcet the outer layer where it had been scored was more tasty.  I cut the recipe in half, as we had a little under a 3 pound ham for my family of 4.  
This ham turned out really great. I made it for Easter and my hubby loved it. This is defiently a keeper. The only thing I did different was using brown sugar instead of the Corn Syrup. THANKS!!!
Very good.  This gets thick and sticky if you don't keep it warmed.  I subbed brown sugar for the karo b/c that's what I had on hand.  I microwaved the mixture just before each basting and basted a LOT.  Tasted like the store bought, more expensive ham.  Thanks, Colleen!
This was an excellent recipe! The glaze was just perfect and my guests were absolutely pleased! They were begging for more! Next time, I'll add pineapple to it for extra flavor! Thanks for the recipe!
I used brown sugar instead of the corn syrup and omitted the cloves.  It was great!  My husband is a picky eater and normally doesn't like anything new... he loved this.  Def a keeper for the holiday ham!
very tasty.  Must use for easter or xmas.
Best Darn Ham! Made this on December 24.  I opted for honey, butter and brown sugar, not a fan of cloves.  Basted, rubbed and rotated every 15 minutes as described.  My family loved it!  It was gone in less than two days.  Everyone says it was better than Honeybaked.  Thank you for the recipe.
Very simple....and very good!
Very good ham recipe! Just make sure not too accidently get too many cloves in and this will be the best ham ever! Thanks for sharing! :) *UPDATE: Served with Awesome & Easy Corn casserole & Roasted Barbecue Potatoes as well as green beans pan-fried/steamed with bacon & onions.
i made half of the glaze recipe for a 6 pound spiral cut ham & had plenty enough to baste it every 15 minutes. i didn't have whole cloves on hand so i stirred 1/4 tsp. ground cloves into the glaze instead. many thanks colleen!
Loved it.  I used the corn syrup, tho not as much as the recipe recommended.
This was delicious for our Easter dinner! I used 1/4 cup brown sugar in place of the dark Karo syrup. I had a bit over 10 pound ham, but I kept the glaze proportion the same as called for in the recipe and it was just the perfect amount. My husband said it was the best ham he has ever had.
I made this recipe for thanksgiving. Omg! Amazing! First time making ham. Delicious! I did use half of the ingredients like other reviews recommended and used brown sugar instead of corn syrup. The only thing I added extra was pineapple slices...but that was just a matter of preference. I added the pineapple when I uncovered the ham...and put it in the oven for 15-20 minutes.
I just got done eatting and my husband is doing the dishes, so it must be good. I made the pan drippings into gravy MMMMMM! I will use this recipe for my next ham.  I might never eat a turkey again!
Will make again!! :)
very good!
I was given the duty to fix ham for Christmas and had never cooked ham before. It was a big hit, hardly anyone touched the turkey. I was dissapointed that there wasn't ham left over to take home, that's how good it turned out. Insead of using whole cloves I used ground cloves. I didn't have corn syrup but used 1 cup of honey and brown sugar instead. I did add a little mustard too just for a little zip. I'm glad I read the reviews because I did end up with a lot of glaze even though I used 1 cup of honey and no corn syrup. I will definitely make this recipe again! It's a keeper! Thank you so much!
I made this ham for my first holiday (Easter) at my new home, my family all loved it!  Basting it every 15 min was a pain but it was SO worth it! I will NEVER purchase another honey baked ham again! Ha my husband was kind of fussy when we ended up with no left overs :) Thanks so much! 
Used this recipe for Easter dinner. It was my first time cooking a ham and everyone really enjoyed it.  I also used brown sugar instead of syrup.  It was a big hit. 
First time I ever cooked a ham.  Everyone said it was the best ham they've ever tasted!
The flavor was fine/good. I'm just not a big fan of the hard rind created in this process - I prefer a softer and juicer outcome.
All I can say is AWESOME!!!  Won't be using any other ham glaze.  You won't be disappointed!
I've been making this recipe at least once a year for many years now - and its always terrific. I'm making it again tomorrow for Christmas...at this point there may be mutiny in my family if I don't!
Simply wonderful taste and simple.
This ham was the best ~ Everyone asked if i had purchased it from Heavenly Ham...to there surprise I said nope~I made it myself!  What a savings as well
This was the most amazing ham I've ver had
This ham is very good, but not the best I've ever had. I followed all of the directions and basted every 10 minutes. The end result was a very good ham--I'm just not sure that it was worth all of the trouble. I think I will try a different recipe next time.
I have made this the last two years for Christmas and it tastes just like ham from the infamous honey baked ham. This year instead of following the instructions I used brown sugar instead of corn syrup and it was so much better! 3/4 cup brown sugar, and 1 cup of butter and 2 cups of honey. I actually can't wait to make this again soon, and I'm not waiting till Christmas this time
I'm giving this 5 stars because I modified the recipe based on ingredients that I had on hand, and I thought it was pretty good (so, I would have rated 4 stars, but since I modified, and the original recipe could be better, I'm giving 5 stars). Anyway, solid recipe base. One thing I added was 1 tsp cajun seasoning just to give it a small amount of heat. I omitted the butter because I had none, and the sauce was quite good. Used this on pork chops.
My family loves this recipe.  We have it all the time.  I usually bake the ham with pineapples also. So good.
Easy,Easy,Easy!! This earned oohs & ahhs when this was served for Christmas Eve dinner. My sweet husband took over for me & did the basteing while I sat at the Dr.'s office with a terrible back ache! He pulled it off with this easy recipe. Good job Honey:D
Very good.  I used brown sugar instead of corn syrup.  I also sliced the ham and basted it that way to get more of the flavor.  So good!!
This a very easy to make and delicious version of Honey Baked Ham.  Everyone liked it!
This was the first time I glazed and scored a ham, and I learned a few things.  First, don't score too deeply.  And second, if you put the whole cloves at the intersections of the scoring, most fall out during cooking and basting.  I had a 10# bone-in ham that cooked perfectly in about 2-1/2 hours, internal temp of 148, basting every 20 minutes.  I would reduce the amount of the glaze next time, as I had a fair amount left over.  However, this ham was as good as any that I've ever had, and the sweet glaze did not overpower the flavor of the ham, it only enhanced it.------12.29.13-----One thing you may want to consider when buying your ham is how the sweet glaze will affect your leftovers.  I bought a larger ham for leftovers, but this ham has not been great in some of my standard leftover ham  recipes.
Very good recipe, but like others I used brown sugar instead of corn syrup, and omitted the cloves.  Next time, I will use half the amount of butter, as well, as it was a touch too buttery.  I also used an oven bag, which leaked, but it still wasn't that bad to clean up.
Excellent! I made this ham for Christmas and it was a hit!  Followed the recipe exactly and baked in a Nesco roaster. I used a tube baster for the glaze and inserted where I scored the ham as well as all over the ham every 10 minutes. It was so delicious!!! My family wanted again and I made the ham 2 weeks later in the oven. It was also delicious but juicier in the roaster. Great recipe!
It was better then Honeybaked Ham, everybody loved this recipe.
This reminded me of the holiday ham my step-mother used to make.  Absolutely delicious!  My boyfriend is very hard to impress but he couldn't stop saying how good it was.  This is definitely a keeper.
Hmmmm. Made this for this year's Easter celebration. I have a tendency to "change" recipes, but this time I wish I wouldn't have.... Based on other's reviews, I opted to purchase a spiral sliced ham. I placed it in an oven bag inside my "foil lined" (just in case!) roasting pan - glaze and all. I found it very difficult to turn the ham to baste (it kept falling apart!), so I stopped after the second time I tried. Next time, I will buy an unsliced ham and baste every 15-20 mintues as directed. I think I will also forgo heating the honey/syrup/butter mixture over the stove (it was too thin IMHO). I'd just melt the butter and add it to the honey/syrup mixture. A thicker consistency (I believe) would be much easier to "brush" on the ham. My dinner guests liked this alot, especially my bf (he doesn't care for "sweet" ham, and since my glaze didn't really soak through, it was barely noticeable or else he would have had a different reaction lol!). I on the other hand was not impressed because I couldn't taste the honey glaze at all (which I was looking forward to). Oh well. Can't please everyone, I guess :) Thanks for sharing this easy recipe!
This glaze is absoutely the best that I have tried!!!!  I bought a spiral hame and used this glaze.  It makes alot but the more you use the better the ham.  I did have leftover glaze but my kids took the slices of ham and dipped them into the warm glaze and put it on egg rolls and made the best sandwiches you have ever had!!!!  I also used brown sugar instead of the syrup.  If you try this you definately won't be disappointed.
honestly this is the worst ham I have ever made. I followed the recipe to the T.... I gave it 2 stars because it was a really good cold ham sandwich the next day
Found it dry after a day in the refrigerator
This was great. While it didn't have the crust on the ham like H.B.H does, it was just as tasty. I also used a roasting bag and just turned it every 20 minutes. I also broiled it for 5 minutes after the initial 1hr and 20 mins. Will DEFINITELY make again! 

It was a great main for our Easter dinner!

Easy to prepare; great flavor. Definitely a keeper! Thank you!
Made this for Christmas dinner and everyone was impressed as to how good the ham was and how juicy it was - even from my husband who always raves about his mom's ham!
Probably won't make again, we didn't like the glaze.
All of my dinner guests loved this ham.  I was very pleased with the taste and the cost (very inexpensive).
My wife usually does all the cooking, but she's currently pregnant.  Christmas dinner was my job this year.  I am NO cook.  This recipe worked out great!  Followed the directions to the "T".  It was a bit messy, but that was all me and my goofy $.50 baster.
I used this recipe for my Easter ham and it was a Big Hit, I followed the recipe but didnt have any corn syrup so I used brown sugar also put it in an oven bag as some viewers suggested. It turned out very moist and delicious, the oven bag made an easy clean up! Thanks...
Yuummm!! I made this for our anniversary dinner and it was a big hit! Served it w/ smothered green beans and rolls and it was a perfect dinner to celebrate our 5 year anniversary!
This was my first ham and it was very easy to make. I don't think it was quite what you would get at the specialty ham store, but considering it was a fraction of the cost, it's good for me.
Soooooooooooo good.  I made this last year for Easter.  My first time cooking Easter dinner.  It was a huge hit.  Everyone thought I got it from the Honeybaked Ham company.
I made my own simple syrup and added the butter and of course honey.I don't think you need to be careful with measurements. It was A.MAZ.ING! And yes, as suggested here..baste baste and baste some more.. Never again will we pay so much $$ for the " Real Deal." This is so much better.. Am trying it again today for Easter Brunch ( 35 ppl) added a bit of brown sugar just for fun.( My thought is.. it's the butter and honey that makes it so fabulous.)
I am not a ham eater but made this recipe for Easter dinner.  I asked the family to rate this from 1 to 5 and they all said 5!  Also, I used brown sugar and halved the basting recipe.
Good but not as good as a true honey baked ham.
This was a very good ham.I hate cloves so I ommitted them. I used Brown sugar instead of Karo but next time I will try the syurp. I also coated the ham with brown sugar for the last ten mins. It was a great Easter dinner. Belive it or not the ham was not to sweet, it was sweet but the salty ham counters the sweetness and makes a perfect balance. Everyone said they really liked the ham but it did not get the rave rainting that I thought it would. I loved it though..  Great Ham
Coming from someone who doesn't even like ham, this recipe is great and my ham turned out moist and was the perfect mix of salty-sweet! Yum! This one is definitely a keeper, Easter dinner was a total hit because of this ham! I did do things a little different, I added a little brown sugar to the original recipe. Even though there was a lot of the glaze left over, it was still great, better to have too much than not enough! What I plan on doing with the remainder is to touch up left overs. Thanks for sharing, you've made a ham eater out of me! If I could have given it 10 stars I would have!
I made one for Easter this year.  It took a little while, but it was well worth the work.  I'm going to make another one for Thanksgiving.
great.  my glaze didn't set up in the pan tho.  It was delicious.  I used Wildflower honey that was unfiltered and uncooked (the best) although orange blossom is right up there. kept it on a double boiler and used one of those new basting brushes that are no stick..silicone...the ham was an uncooked hickory smoked ham and the natural juices may have kept the glaze from becoming a piece of glass.....it was great 
Very good, YUM,YUM,YUM i used brown sugar instead of corn syrup like most other people, I had a 10 lb ham. I made the glaze using the exact measurements given (there was alot left over).  The last 2 basings I let the glaze cool and become thicker before basing again. 5 Stars, hands down. I'll never buy a honey ham again.
We loved this ham.  Making it ourselves rather than our annual purchase at HoneyBaked saved us $$$ and tasted just as delicious
Very good ham.  The whole family loved it.  Will definitely do this one for the next holiday!
This was excellent! I substituted the corn syrup for an equal amount of brown sugar (corn allergy), reduced the honey to 3/4 cup (all I had), used 1/4 tsp. ground cloves, and the full 2/3 cup butter. It was awesome. The only problem I had was that I didn't follow directions, and tried to keep it at a very low heat vs. the double boiler, and it ended up gradually burning and I didn't get to glaze it as long as I would've liked. Also, even w/the reduced amount of honey, it made a lot of glaze and w/o burning (!!) would've made enough to glaze my 9 lb. ham.
Followed recipe exactly! Everyone LOVED them ham.. none left over! An Easter hit!!
There is enough sauce in this recipe for a 100lb ham - I'd reduce the sauce recipe by about three quarters or more.  I think it would work better with a spiral cut ham - it was pretty tasty though.
My husband made this glaze for a very special
dinner we had.  It was very easy to prepare and even easier to eat.  It was delicious and our guests raved about the flavor.  We are baking another ham this Christmas and we will use this ham glaze again.  Please try it, you will not be dissappointed.
I had a 20 lb.ham and this glaze was awesome! I made it for our christmas dinner, and it was very good.Everyone loved it. Its a keeper at my house for the holidays! A LIFESAVER!!!!
Made for Christmas dinner. My family loved it.
I made this with a pre-sliced, spiral ham on Christmas Eve with my mom. It turned out GREAT!  The only thing I changed was using a little less honey than the recipe called for.  This recipe is definitely a keeper! :)
This was awesome!  I bought an 11 lb. ham so I doubled the sauce and per some reviewers I thought adding the brown sugar would be good.  So I made one batch with the corn syrup and one substituting brown sugar.  It was wonderful!  We had this for Easter and everyone raved about it!  They also said it was so pretty that it looked like it should be in a magazine!  This will be the ONLY way I will make ham from now on!
I'd never baked a ham before but there was a great sale at the grocery store so I decided to give it a shot.  This recipe gave it a slightly sweet and deliciously juicy flavor.  I'll definitely use this one again!
Awesome! Hubby made this for Christmas dinner (with my help of course......bless his heart!) -absolutely delightful...whole house smelled wonderful! We did use the brown sugar instead of the corn syrup. We also used ground cloves and mixed it with our baste. The only thing we will do different next time is spray the pan with Pam before lining it with foil. Thanks for a wonderful recipe!
I used brown sugar instead of corn syrup. Otherwise, I didn't change the ingredients. Fantastic!
My family LOVED this recipe. It had a wonderful flavor and was delicious.
Beyond wonderful!!!  I didn't do the cloves because I was running late, but it still turned out great.  I agree that half the glaze would have been plenty, and I basted at least every 10 minutes.  This will be our Christmas ham every year from now on!
I am not a ham lover but I got a free ham from out local store and thought I'd make it for our Easter Celebration. This recipe was wonderful. I changed the glaze slightly using 1/3 cup butter, 1/2 cup of light brown sugar and 1/2 cup of honey. I scored the ham and used the cloves. 
I basted every 10 minutes.  This ham was so flavorful and juicy that I would make it again. I mixed the glaze ingredients together and microwaved it until heated and then kept it on the back of the stove. He was warm enough there since the oven was on.  Can't get any easier.  Thank you Colleen for sharing your wonderful recipe. 
The recipe as-is is just OK.  Followed some tips from a previous poster and halved the glaze amount (perfect for a half spiral ham) and subbed in brown sugar and a stick of butter for the corn syrup.  THAT makes a superior glaze that wasn't even difficult to clean up.
Wonderfully tasty.  Doesn't need to be watched to carefully which leaves lots of time to prepare other parts of the meal.  Next time, I will preslice the ham so I can get all that wonderful glaze on each piece.  I served it for Thanksgiving dinner and everyone took the leftovers home.  I was really impressed!
This was so good!  We don't even like ham all that well but my whole family loved this!  Definitely a keeper!  I followed suggestions from other reviews using 1/2 cup brown sugar, 1/4 cup honey, 1/2 tsp ground cloves, and 1/3 cup butter.  I put the ham on the roasting rack in the Ninja 3-in-1 slow cooker set to the oven setting at 325 for 1 hour and 15 minutes, basting every 10 minutes.  I put baby carrots under the the roasting rack and added one can of ginger ale.  The only thing I would do differently is that I wouldn't score it next time as the top came out a little dry.  I might turn it over halfway through next time.  I don't think I'll be trying many other ham recipes now.
Having been raised Jewish I had never (honestly) seen a ham in my life let alone cooked one for Christmas dinner. But I really wanted to do something nice for my boyfriend.  This recipe was a HUGE hit! He LOVED LOVED LOVED it. As did I.  We ate it again (chilled) for lunch today. AMAZING.
Simple but sooooo very very very tasty!  I purchased a 10 pound bone in partially cooked ham on sale and 5 hours later it was superb!  EVERYONE loved it, raved about it and enjoyed every minute of it.  After many many hams, both great and just so-so, this one just made it to the top of this list and I'm sure it's the only way I'll do them from now on!
I used Alaga cane syrup instead of the corn syrup.  I also only basted 2 or 3 times during cooking.  Everyone loved it at Christmas dinner.
this was great it was my first time cooking ham and this went over as the most popular dinner i've made it s a wonderful recipe and everyone loved it
Very good glaze. I used ground cloves, omitted corn syrup, and cut back on brown sugar & honey! cooked on low in crock pot for 3 -4 hours. Perfect!
I tried this for the first time and was prepared for disappointment, but I was pleasantly surprised.  I grew up eating the famous honwley baked hams and this recipe has come closer than any other recipe I've tried. 
My search is over!  I'm very pleased with my new honey baked ham recipe.
This was just what I was looking for it was easy to prepare and everyone loved it. I'm a hero
I tried this recipe (Honey Bake Ham) for Thanksgivings and all I have to say is THANKS FOR GIVING me this great recipe. I followed the Ingredients to a T. except I used brown sugar instead of syrup. The whole family loved it I didn't have any leftovers with ham. I give it 5 stars and then some..........The next time I make it I will do two instead of one. Thats the only change I would make. 


Thanks a lot up and coming new cook----Jackie Gary,IN
This was the BEST ham I have ever made! I added some mustard and ground cloves to the glaze, it was a hugh hit!
I varied this slightly by cooking the ham in a casserole dish with carrots as another reviewer said to do..the sauce gives a lovely flavour to the carrots and the ham was so tasty.  The key to getting this tasting amazing is to keep basting the meat.
This glaze was delicious! I used a pre-cooked, presliced ham, and this was great! Me and my boyfriend went back for seconds and thirds. It made Easter a hit!
Have made this 2-3 times and it is delicious! We tend to bake until the ham is just heated through or else it dries out.
Ok, this was wonderful.  I had a 10lb ham, along with 10lbs of fried chicken and 4 packages of grilled dogs and the ham was picked clean, only the bone remained.
Fantastic!  Even better the next day.  Thank for all of the tips in previous reviews.
To much honey
Made this for Christmas dinner and we really liked it.  I did what others suggested and used brown sugar rather than corn syrup, and because we're not huge clove fans, I used ground in the actual glaze.  It didn't have a huge taste, but I think if I had used a spiral ham, the flavour would really have come through better.
Just Awesome!  I would definitely recommend this recipe.  I did use brown sugar instead of the syrup.  Had an 11 lb. ham so doubled recipe but wouldn't have to do that as had a ton left over.  Took to a huge gathering and never heard so many compliments on the ham.  Thanks for the recipe!!!
Extremely good recipe.  Only gave 4 stars because of having to baste it so much.  My husband threw the leftovers on the grill one night and everyone LOVED it grilled!
I'm not a huge ham fan but served this on Christmas Day and everyone loved it. It made a beautiful ham!
After reading reviews, I used half brown sugar and half corn syrup and left out the cloves. Terrific!
Wow!  This recipe is soooo delicious.  I am a person who was raised to not eat Ham so I never learned how to prepare the meat.  My husband however, loves Ham so I decided to try to make it for Christmas Dinner this year.  My husband is extremely picky but let me tell you; he raved about how delicious that Ham tasted and begged me to prepare it again soon.  In fact, we are invited to his Mother's house for dinner tomorrow and guess what my Husband requested as the main course?  Yep, you guess it, Honey Glazed Ham!!!!!  Thank you for sharing this wonderful recipe!!
Made my first ham using this recipe and everyone loved it. Will be making a ham again for Christmas.
Much less expensive than buying a honey glazed ham, and just as good!  I will use fewer cloves next time, per request of my husband.
This turned out awesome!!! Thanks for sharing!!!
I added butterscoth liquor to therecipee not much about 1/4 cup and basted every half hour or so it was to die for....finger licking good. My company could not believe how great it was. Will do it again and again. Thank you, Dolores8
Spectacular!
This recipe rocks.  I cooked it for three other people and they all raved about how juicy and tasty this ham was.  You can go with or without the cloves, but I would recommend scoring the meat so the juices really soak in.  I actually like this better than the name-brand Honeybaked Ham.
This glaze was ok. not great reading the review I thought it was going to be great. Don't think I would use again.
I will never buy an expensive honey glazed ham again!!!  I was very generous with the basting of the ham.  Make sure to take out all of the cloves.  I bit into one and do NOT recommend it.  Everyone loved it at our family Easter lunch.  Great recipe!
Easy and very delicious.
I am making this right now for Christmas Eve dinner. First I need to say I am a fairly new cook. I started out using a oven bag. It ripped when I tried to flip the ham. I tried the other oven bag and the same thing happened. I gave up that idea and it is now in the crock pot. I'm going to put it on high for the next four hours and I'll see how it goes. Its a good thing I'm just cooking for my two toddlers and husband. If all else fails theres pizza.
Great recipe!  I didn't have enough honey so used half the amount of honey and I added some light corn syrup, brown sugar, and maple syrup for the other half.  I used a roasting pan with a lid and took the lid off the last half hour and broiled it the last 4 minutes.
I used this recipe with an oven bag, turning it over every 15-20 minutes. I did put 1&1/2 c. dark brown sugar in bottom of bag then placed ham flat side down & bone up . I used about half of glaze during baking then poured remaining glaze on ham before broiling. I cut the top of the bag off before final glazing &  broiling. My family said it was the best ham ever.
I made this recipe for Thanksgiving, and everyone enjoyed it. I thought it was very good.
I'm not a ham kind of gal, but my family thought it was very tasty and my mother said it just melted in her mouth. Great holiday recipe and easy.
I never liked ham. My husband requested it. I tried this out and I LOVE it. Really good recipe! Only thing I didn't have corn syrup so I used light brown sugar. I also used a turkey baster to glaze the ham. Great recipe thanks for sharing!
I hate rating this because I changed so many things as recommended by others but I at the same time I hate not leaving one.  I used a 9lb, bone in, fully cooked, smoked, spiral ham ($11) and omitted the cloves (since it was already sliced), used brown sugar in place of the honey & halved the honey.  I lined my pain with heavy duty foil & baked it most of the time covered with foil since many complained of it drying out.  I've never had an expensive honey baked ham so I can't compare but most of us really like it.  It was a nice addition to our Christmas meal!
Really outstanding!  On the spur of the moment I needed to throw together a company party on a very tight budget.  I just served this receipe to 30 tough to please men and I'm certain that every single one of them went out of their way to say how good it was.  (One even told me he had EIGHT helpings!)  THANKS!
I used half of the honey and syrup on the receipt. I was afraid it was going to be too sweet. Also, I kept it on a turkey bag for easy cleanup and put 1/2 cup water around the bag to avoid overdry it. The compliments were great
This was a good recipe.  I did the recipe as directed except I cut all the ingredients in half.  That was plenty of glaze.  I had never used whole cloves on a ham before.  I did enjoy the taste the cloves gave to the ham.  I basted as directed every 10 to 15 minutes and I used a 4 1/2lb. boneless ham.  I did not caramelize the ham at the end as directed.  I thought the ham looked great without that.  Just my preference.  The ham turned out great and my family enjoyed it.  It was good but not "out of this world" if you know what I mean.  I think I will make it again but but I may reduce the ingredients again as I was left with alot a glaze still.  Thanks for the recipe.
This was very good but very messy.  I used brown sugar and honey to cut some of that very strong honey taste.  
i'm not a beginner cook, just a beginner ham maker.  this was my first one ever.  i didn't grow up eating it.  i made this for my fiance who loves the expensive one.  he pointed out that i should have put in the pan slice side down which the recipe didn't mention cuz most of you probably know that.  i left out the cloves too cuz neither of us like them. but the glaze was great and yes, i used 1/4 cup brown sugar splenda, honey and butter.  i found myself licking the basting brush each time i basted!  our broiler is too high for a ham so the carmelization didn't work well, but all in all it was very very good and even i had a slice.  i am sure i will make it again.  thanks for a great recipe.
I served this for Christmas Eve and everyone wanted the recipe. My sister bought a honey baked ham and my ham was the favorite hands down. Mom is always hard to please and she loved it. I won't be buying a honey baked ham anymore and now We'll have it more often.
I lined my roasting pan w/aluminum foil and sprayed it and the rack w/cooking spray.  Added baby carrots and scored the ham.  I poured 1/2 can of ginger ale over the ham first.  I usually use it in ham recipes but I was afraid of the ham drying out so I wanted another liquid in the pan.  I glazed the ham every 15-20 minutes.  It was delish.
WOW! Just like the Honey Baked Ham Store I'll never spend $40 buck's on a ham their again.
Not bad - a little too much clove flavor for me but still good. It looked really nice. Not as good as Honey Baked Ham Co. but not a bad recipe.
Awesome!!!!  Will be making this for Easter every year!
THIS GLAZE IS TERRIFFIC!  DEFINITE KEEPER FOR THE HOLIDAYS!!

My ham turned out great! Very tender, defintely not too sweet. I was worried about that when I read the reviews so I did it a little different. I had an 11 pound bone in ham which I scored and cloved. For the sauce I used 1 stick of butter, 1 cup of honey, 1/2 brown sugar (more or less to taste), 3/4 cup pineapple juice and plus or minus a 1/2 cup of mandarian orange syrupwater (I was making fruit salad also). I did baste more or less every 15 min and I did cover it with a foil tent the Entire time it baked. The result could not be considered a glaze per se more like dripping - very thin. However the ham was the tenderest and most delious ham I have ever had. The taste was just right all the way through - mildly sweet and salty. It did not need anything else, too moist to need a glaze. The key really is not to be afraid to taste the glaze you are making and adjust according to your likes!
very good and very easy. I didn't have trouble with the pan getting sticky. There was plenty of moisture from the ham, altho I had lined the pan with foil so cleanup was a breeze.
I liked, not sure if anyone else did. 6-10-13
Did not have 2 cups of honey so added molassa because also did not have dark karo
Great glaze - wonderful flavor.
This is a delicious ham!  The sauce is wonderful!
tasty!
Excellent if you like.  This is definitely the way to go over the store bought ham.  Thank you for sharing the recipe!
This is absolutely the best ham glaze I've ever tried.  Thanks for sharing your recipe.
The whole family loved this ham and my girls love to help basting.  Well worth the time.
This was very very tasty.  I basted faithfully every 15 minutes and it was well worth it.
Very good and very simple! I did cut off the extra fat and rub it down the brown sugar. Everyone loved it!
I followed this recipe exactly and came out with great results-I will definitely be using this one again.
I took a cheap basic ham and made it into something that they family raved about with this recipe. Easy and quick. Make sure to slice the ham to have it well flavored. A definite winner!
We used a ready to cook ham, put the glaze on for the last hour and kept it covered and it was great.
THE best ham recipe! I made this last year and it was a huge hit. I will use this for all of the holidays. I did used brown sugar instead of corn syrup and I also used a small amount of ground cloves to save time. I can't wait to have it again!
This is an excellent recipe for ham. To keep the ham moist and to ensure the flavor went all the way through, I basted every 20 minutes or so with the sauce. 
I used the most common suggestions... 1/2 recipe, change corn syrup for brown sugar, 1c honey same butter.  I combined and melted it in a small saucepan... I used a spiral sliced ham and took it out of the fridge a couple of hours before cooking.  Then, I cooked my 8lb ham in the oven on 350 for 1 1/2 hours and basted the ham every 10 minutes.  It was unbelievably delicious!
Nom!  This was delicious, and easy to prepare (but not hands-off, since you had to baste so often).  The ham was so moist and juicy and flavorful!  I think next time, I will try to put a brown sugar crust around the ham, the way the Honeybaked store does, because the skin got very dry and tough despite basting.  The inner part of the ham is GREAT, though!  I also think I will either omit the cloves or use a small amount sprinkled on top next time.  The flavor of them was a little strong for our tastes.
Too Sweet
Easy and good, but not the amazing dish I thought it would be. Having said that, pouring a bit of the glaze on individual slices before serving can definitely take it over the edge to great. 
WOW!! I used this glaze on a store brand ham for Christmas dinner at the in-laws.  They are still raving about it.  I did add 1/4 cup of brown sugar.  This is an awesome glaze.
This was fabulous.  Best ham I have ever made/tasted.  My family requests it over and over.  I will be making my fourth one this Easter.  Thanks for a great recipe!
Very good would be best with a bone in ham for spiral slicing so the flavor is fully incorporated. Add a little brown sugar to the mixture
Delicious and easy to follow instructions.  Best ham ever!
This turned out fairly well. It didn't really flavor the ham all that much though. It was a lot of work to keep basting it every 15 minutes. I added pineapple slices and cherries on the ham. It looked great. The next time I will make 1/2 the glaze and use it as a sauce instead of basting it.
Outstanding taste. I used brown sugar instead of corn syrup and only used 1/3 cup of butter. This was a HUGE hit for Easter. So easy, so good!
My family loved this ham  - I adjusted the recipe slightly to make it more like the "Honeybaked Ham Store" But no one could stop talking about it.  Thanks!!
Everybody loved this ham!!! Next time I cut the broiling time down to 2 minutes if I used the broiler at all. Using the broiler at 4 minutes made the ham look burnt on top.  Althought it tasted delicious-it just didn't look that great.
little bit of a hassle having to baste it every 15 mins because I was so busy getting the rest of the supper ready but it ended up being delicious!
Tastes fantastic!  Husband loves this!
I used this recipe for Easter and everyone raved about how great the ham tasted.  I will definitely use this recipie again.  Thanks for sharing.
AMAZING!!

I made this for Christmas and Easter. It was a HUGE hit in my house. I, too, used brown sugar instead of the syrup. 
I, too, substituted dark brown sugar for the corn syrup and found it delicious. It was rather easy, too. I baked it the same time I baked my accompanying side dish of "Yummy Potatoes." It makes even the cheapest ham taste really good!
This was my first time making ham and for a beginner in cooking ANYTHING, this was a very easy meal to make.  Made it for our Christmas dinner with the in-laws and everyone loved it!  Bit too dry, but still delicious.  Only 1/5 of ham was left over which I think, juice tastes much better warmed up.  Would make it again. :)
This was really good.  Every year i struggle to make a ham as good as the one i made this year for Thanksgiving.  We are not a turkey loving family so the ham is very important.  I LOVED this ham and so did everyone who tried it.  I wont wait for thanksgiving to make this again :)
I used a spiral sliced ham and it turned out great.
This glaze turned out really good! Like others, I used brown sugar instead of the corn syrup and I also added some pineapple juice to the base~ it was very tasty!
I am not a ham person at all, but this recipe has changed my tune!  Thanks!
This came out great.  We did everything the recipe called for.  My family will never buy a store bought honey ham again.  Why, when we can do it ourselves for a fraction of the cost. All 6 people in my family loved it!
Made this for our Christmas buffet and everyone raved about it.
My first Easter last year and I used this recipe. THE BEST ham I've ever had! 
It has become a must-have for my family at Easter every year now.
Well said, Annette - too bad AllRecipes can't list the reviews by the most recent, right under the recipe. Your way is my way, though, for now.
I tried this last Christmas - wonderful!
Made this weekend for a potluck with rave reviews...used a bone in ham instead of a ready to eat, subbed 1/4 tsp ground cloves for the whole, 1/2 cup brown sugar for the corn syrup, big squirt of mustard and the juice from a tin of sliced pineapples and completely forgot to add the butter and turned out amazing...cooked in the crock on low for 6 hours instead of turning on the oven,  Thanks Colleen - was told by many it was the best ham they ever had.  I used a crock liner for my pot, but didn't really need it...mine was not sticky - maybe because of the pineapple juice?
Update: made this again using a spriral ham at the same method as above - dinner was delayed so it ended up being in the crock for about 9 hours...burnt...still tasted ok, and still pretty tender (at least the inside of the ham-edges were pretty crusty)
Best ever!! I am asked to make this ham every holiday. Just as good as a Honeybaked
I thought this was a solid 4.5 stars. It came out good. I did not think it tasted like a honeybaked, not as candied, but still good. I would make this again, but I would also try something else too. I cut this in half and still had a lot left over and I basted every 10 min for a 7 pound ham. thanks!
I made this recipe for Easter dinner.  I had a 10lb bone in ham from a local farm.  I only had a little over a cup of honey on hand and only light corn syrup so I had to improvise and used a mixture of corn syrup and molasses with the honey and butter.  I had plenty of glaze for my big ham.  I basted every 15-20 minutes and because my ham was double I doubled the time to get it to 140 degrees.  It was delicious.  Next time I will try to have the correct ingredients to do it as the recipe states, but even with a bit of improvising it turned out great.  One person commented that it was the best ham theyd ever had.  I will definately make it again!
Very good ham!  My whole family enjoyed it. I did not use the cloves (didn't have any) but used a little nutmeg instead. Tasted wonderful.
I made this for my family and they just loved it! I will be making this more in the future.
I like this a lot!  My kids prefer a ham and pineapple combo - but if you are looking for a honey glazed - this is fantastic!
Very Pretty to look at but not much on taste.  I felt the cloves took away for the taste.  I want a ham to taste like a ham with alittle sweet.  Just not for me.
my bf made this on Thanksgiving! it was the bomb! reminds me of d ham I used to eat wen i was a lil girl :)
Very tasty! Save your precious honey though, this glaze is way too much! I had a 5 lb ham and used 1/4 cup corn syrup and 1/2 cup of honey and 1/2 stick of butter. I melted the glaze in the microwave and ended up adding about 1 tbsp of brown sugar to make it just a tad bit sweeter as others suggested. I only had powdered clove so I scored the ham and sprinkled the clove on top. I basted the glaze over the top every 20 minutes for 90 minutes and had lots of glaze left over.  Turned out great!
So easy and so tasty! Everyone down to the pickiest loved...a new easter tradition in our home
Absolutely Delicious!!!!
I made this today for Easter Dinner.  I read the reviews and cut the sauce in 1/2 & used brown sugar with a little bit of pineapple juice.  I also grilled pineapple rings using the baste which went well with the Ham.  I will make this again.
We used to have a Honey-baked ham for Christmas every year when I was younger.  I stopped eating pork a long time ago but my mother-in-law has a Hb ham at every holiday and I kind of feel left out.  I picked up a 2 lbs. turkey ham and halved this recipe for it.  It is wonderful.  I can't believe how much favor it imparts.  Now I don't have to break down and sneak a piece of ham.  ;P
Great - served it for family Christmas and we loved it.  Cloves added great flavor.
This is WAY better than a Honey Baked ham!!  This is a HUGE hit in my family!
My family loves this, only thing I don't like is you really have to babysit it.  Every 15 min you have to baste, but the flavor is worth it!
This was EXCELLENT!  I made it for Easter dinner and all my guests were raving about it, Im still picking on the leftovers it is just so yummy!  Thanks for a great recipe I will make this again!!
So easy and so delicious, my family could not stop eating it
This was the feature of my Thanksgiving meal, and it was fantastic.  It has been voted as a must for all future turkey day meals.  We had a few accidental clove issues, so next time I'll used the ground cloves instead.
Mine was a liitle dry.
Good dish.  My husband really enjoyed it.
i made this once exactly as shown it wasnt that exciting. Ham like, but no recipe I would pass on. Next time I tried using frozen OJ and it made a big difference, TASTY!
I made this for Thanksgiving and it was goooood!My ham was a winner for the day.
Got rave reviews!
Not bad.  Not the best, but pretty good....and very easy.
I like the recipe, but no offense- 2 cups of honey is VERY expensive here in Florida.
I made this for dinner this Easter and it was wonderful.  Even my husband said we will never stray from this recipe!  My sister in law and her family dropped in unexpectedly and they all had seconds!  Thank you so much.
This made an inexpensive ham a treat! I did use the crockpot, and glazed the ham every 15 minutes for about 2 or 3 hours, then I just dumped the remaining glaze over the ham. the liquids collected generously, and the carrots and sweet potatoes that I added were being basted, too. At the end the ham fell right off the bones!I probably had it in my crockpot for 8 hours. I sealed the steam exits so it retained all the juices. It was so very tasty and tender. A real treat.
Louise in Canandaigua, N.Y.
This was so good. I used the suggestion of Brown Sugar instead of the Dark Corn Syrup and LOVED IT. I only gave this 4 stars because I replaced the syrup. The flavor was excellent. I made sure to save a little of the glaze for the ham after I took it out of the oven so that I could pour it directly on the ham while it was still hot. This recipe is a definite keeper. 
Best ham I ever cooked!  It impressed everyone I was cooking for.  Definately a hit and will be the way I cook ham from now on.
perfect, ham came out nice and juicy not the usual dry texture. The glaze soaked through nicely. Will def use it next year.
Very tasty.  Great that there are few ingredients.  I made this for Thanksgiving dinner & Christmas, as well.  It's really nice to have something special like this to serve at the holidays since I don't like turkey.
Simply succulent and tasty!
I made the recipe "as-is" and it was good. And yes, you have to brush and base this ham pretty much every 15 to 20 mins. I was good. It was moist. I used the ready-eat-ham. 
At the same time, I made a second ham with a few changes - I added 1/2 cup of brown sugar to the mix and I used a shank ham, yes a cheap cut of meat.This came out spectacular! It was the best of both the hams made. I cooked the ham for the amount of time needed for the weight of the ham and based it every 15 minutes. OH man, it came out moist w/ that lovely flavor. 
I will be using this recipe again.
The clove flavor came through way too much.  I think next time I will just add a bit of ground clove to the glaze, if at all.
One word...Delicious!
We loved this recipe! I didn't find this too sweet.  I used light corn syrup (by accident) instead of dark and added ground cloves to the mixture-it was absolutedly fantastic. I will continue to use light corn syrup-maybe thats why it didn't turn out too sweet.  The next day, the the warm-ups turned out even better!
This was hands down the best ham I ever cooked.I use a raw ham with bone and score it myself, add cloves and baste ham every 30 minutes.Very nice flavor,Thanks for the recipe.
I made this ham for Christmas, and my 6-yr-old and my fiancee LOVED it!  We had so much leftover that we were eating it for a week and actually looked forward to it-- which really proves how delicious it is!  I wasn't bothered at all with basting it so often, because I was busy with cooking other things at the same time, so I really didn't find it to be a "chore."  We all highly recommend it!
OK - I'm starting this off by saying that I personally do not like ham. But with company coming over on a particularily cold day I thought that a homestyle dinner of ham, scalloped potatoes and steamed veggies would be a hit! The ham was unbelievably delicious! While my husband was carving it in the kitchen, the guests were nibbling at the 'little pieces'!! Super easy, tasty and a big hit! Thanks! A keeper! (oh, I did try some...it wasn't bad..hahaha)
Thanks for sharing this wonderful recipe.  Its a keeper!
This was very good!  Plenty of glaze sauce in this recipe for a 9 1/2 pound ham, basted every 15 minutes.  Will definitely make this again.
best ham ever!!!!! It's like eating candy!
Great and simple recipe!  I used brown sugar in place of the corn syrup and it still turned out fantastic.  I cut the recipe down to only 1/4th of the original because I had a very small ham but it was the perfect amount.
This was a hit for Christmas dinner. Even the people who are hard to please fell in love with this ham. I did change a few things, I added a quart of pineapple juice and used corn syrup in the first batch and brown sugar in the second one. I was worried that it might be too sweet but it was perfect! Thank you for the excellent recipe I will use this every time I bake a ham!
The only changes I made was I used molasses instead of the dark corn syrup since I did not have any it came out wonderful this is a great recipe you can tweak it any way and it still comes out good.
Everyone loved this. I left out the cloves because we aren't big fans, and like others I substituted brown sugar for the corn syrup.
good easy and different than usual
great way too finish off a smoked ham. a keeper
Delicious and easy!!! I will be making this again and again!!! Thanks!
Awesome! My husband & I give it a 10! Melts in your mouth!
made this for xmas ham and  was it good just got given another leg so will be doing it again cant get the taste outta my head looking to buy a smoker bbq in future so thinking of doing this after smoking ham cant wait now
I've made this twice so far and did things different each time. Both times it turned out great! This is a fabulous recipe because it can be adjusted to work with what you have in your pantry.   I didn't have dark corn syrup, so I used light corn syrup and it turned out great. Second time I added some brown sugar to the light corn syrup and it was even better.   Don't have a double broiler so I put mixture in a glass bowl (oven-safe) and placed it on top of a pot filled half-way with water. Put it on the stove and turned it to medium, worked great!
I just used a 1/2 smoked ham and this was wonderful!  I did take the advice of other readers and used brown sugar instead of the corn syrup, cut the recipe in half and kept the same amount of butter as the full recipe.  next time I would like to use ground cloves, but I only had whole cloves on hand and it still turned out great!  hubby loved it!
I followed the suggestions of previous reviewers and used brown sugar instead of corn syrup.  I also added a mixture of orange juice and pear nectar to the glaze.  It was easier to baste using a good thick pastry brush rather than a plastic baster....especially because the glaze was fairly thick.
this is excellent I use a 6-1/2 lb. and cut the sauce in half and had plenty.
A good glaze all around.  I didn't have whole cloves, so I used powdered instead.  Whole would have been better I'm sure.  I used brown sugar instead of corn syrup as some suggested.  All in all, a successful first attempt at ham!
good holiday recipe
I cooked my ham ( about 12 1/2 lbs shank non-spiral cut ) in a roaster on low temperature at about 160 degrees overnight then raised the temperature to about 250 for two hours in the morning. I made the sauce with butter, maple syrup, brown sugar, and honey. Sorry, I didn't measure the ingredients.  The sauce was so good I could have eaten it with a spoon! I basted frequently before I went to bed and then again in the morning. The ham was a hit at our Thanksgiving dinner. Everyone loved it!
I used this for christmas dinner and it was great. I also substituted brown sugar for the corn syrup and used a smithfield bone-in-ham rather than a pre-cooked one. Of course it took much longer to cook but was well worth it and cheaper too.
Everyone loves this recipe.  To make it super easy, simply put the ham in a crockpot, dump the ingredients in, set it on low and concentrate on whatever else you are making.  Turns out fabulous every time!  I always use light corn syrup as the dark tends to turn the ham brown while it is cooking.  Ham can be left on the bone (if it will fit in the crockpot) or cut it off the bone before putting it in the crockpot.  I've made it every year for Easter for the past 5 years and am now making it for Easter, Thanksgiving AND Christmas.
My husband dished up his food and headed to the fridge to grab the honey mustard.  Before putting it on the ham he took a bite and proceeded to put the honey mustard back in the fridge.  I had a 7 pound ham, only used about 1/3 the cloves and had juice left.  I am going to keep it and fry bacon in it to give it a maple flavor.
Really good and easy.
My family and guests really enjoyed this recipe.  I am a "new" cook and don't enjoy being stranded in the kitchen while company is around, but I found this fairly simple to make.  It's definitely not a "fix it and forget it" dish, but the compliments I received were worth the time in the kitchen.
This was the best ham I've ever had. There was a ton of glaze left, and I used a 7 lb ham instead, because I read other reviews that said there was a lot of glaze left, and there really was. You could probably also do a 10 lb ham with this glaze as well.
This glaze REALLY made my Easter ham excellent!  I got tons of compliments. I substituted 1/8 tsp of ground cloves (I didn't have whole ones) and 2T of brown sugar for the corn syrup.  It was the best ham I have ever had, honestly! AND-its tastes even better cold!
great 
Way too sweet!  The smell in the oven is almost overwhelming.  I would not recommend this unless you like your ham "very, very sweet"!
This recipe was good.  I never really ate a ham for the holidays so I don't have much to compare this too.  I didn't have a double boiler so I just kept the glaze warm on the stove (keeping an eye on it so it would'nt burn)  Overall, it tasted fine.
I followed the recipe and it was a big hit at Thanksgiving. My wifes quilt guild had a carry in later I did a ham up for them. Nothing but rave revues. You do have to stay on top of the glazing.
I made this for Christmas Eve exactly as stated.  Wonderful tender delicious ham.  I would make it again for a big event.
I, like many other people, have never made a glazed ham before.  I found this recipe to be quick and easy.  Before using this recipe I was not very fond of ham.  Now I love it!!  Leftovers are excellent for ham sandwiches.  Don't over cook and baste frequently for juicy and delicious ham!
This was excellent!!! Mother-in-law said it was better then Honey baked ham.  
Basted every 15 minutes as well...wonderful and easy.
This glaze was very labor intensive. I cooked a bigger ham than the recipe is based on, so basting every 15 minutes for 2 1/2 hours is a real pain. Also, it burned very easily. When I put it under the broiler to carmelize it burned and we ended up cutting the glazed part off completely. It would have been very pretty and probably worth the effort for a smaller ham. I will stick to my brown sugar & mustard rub from now on.
My husband really liked this recipe, but I felt that it was missing something; the marinade had a weird flavor. Probably won't use again.
Excellent!
Add one more to the list of people that say this is better than a "Honey Baked Ham".  I thought it would be good but I didn't think it would be this good!  I wasn't going to have ham for Christmas this year until I tasted this.  I'll be making another this weekend!
Excellent!  I made this for our Christmas dinner and everyone loved it.  Based on other reviews, I also substituted the corn syrup with brown sugar and made half the glaze. Great recipe that I will use again.
excellent flavor but it was a hassle to remember to baste the ham
OMG.  Better than Honey Baked!!!  I pretty much followed the recipe verbatim except I used a 10lb ham and  glazed it every 15 min and still had a buttload of glaze left afterward but it is sooooooo good!!!
great recipe!!   the ham turned out wonderful!  I also added Apricot preserves to the glaze.
This ham was delicious - I'll definitely make it again.  I followed the previous ratings and used brown sugar instead of corn syrup and halved the amount.  It was perfect!
!!! Here I Am Back Again!!!
Christmas,New Years,Easter There Is No Other Ham Glaze.
Look No Further Than Right Here!!!
Great ham recipe.  Took ham to the next level.  Good reviews from guest.
Love this!
i made this ham for christmas day, and it was incredible. (i couldn't use the cloves because of the children, so we used pineapple rings studded with toothpicks) But the corn syrup and honey glaze, (mixed with brown sugar) was such a hit. It had so much flavor and the aroma was great! thanks colleen :-)
I really love this recipe. I used honey as well ans two pinches of cloves. My husband love it. This I will use from now on
Very, very yummy.  Tastes like a Honey Baked Ham but less expensive!
The reviewer who recommended lining the pan with foil was SOOO correct! This glaze is very sticky and messy. YUM!
This came out better and a lot cheaper than that ham from that place. I used dark brown sugar instead of syrup like other people. The recipe made a lot of glaze which I used for au jus.
This was awesome and was a hit with my entire family this Easter! I used brown sugar instead of the corn syrup. Thanks!
Best Ham ever.  left out the cloves, took dark skin off of ham.  Basted ever 10 minutes or so, ham came out very moist.
This is my favorite ham recipe.
Quite tasty but it made way more than I needed.   But, my family enjoyed the ham.  It's good but not even close to as good as the original from the store.  I would use the recipe again, though.
I made this recipe for our Easter Sunday dinner and it is a true 'keeper'!  I used the listed amount of glaze in the recipe for a 9 pound spiral sliced ham and it was plenty.  Thank you for the wonderful recipe.  It will be definitely be the way all our future hams will be prepared.....can't wait for leftovers!!
Very good.  I adapted this recipe and used it on an 18lb ham. My sister bought one that wasn't cooked all the way.  I cooked it for 3 hours while I was at church and then did this recipe 1 hour before serving and it was GREAT!
This ham was so good, I will definately make it again.
son said it could have been a bit sweeter and it was a bit runny.  Will play around with it.  All in all it was wonderful and as it sat in frig a couple days it got better.
Great recipe, instead of spending eighty dollars on a honey baked ham. I spent nine on this ham and it tasted exactly the same.
Quite tasty!

Like other reviewers, I used brown sugar instead of corn syrup, preferring the flavor. I also added a dash of dry English mustard. I didn't have whole cloves, so used a pinch of ground cloves. The bottom of the ham did get very dark and caramelized, where the glaze and juices settled. I didn't want the same for the top, so I skipped the last step.

Ham was tender and tasty, thanks!
This was great! It made the ham taste soooo good. I did substitute 1/2 c of brown sugar for the syrup as other posters had suggested. I had 2 hams, a 12 1/2 pounder and a 9 1/2 pounder (when you're having 30 people for dinner, you need 2 hams!) and I had plenty of glaze for both hams. I will definitely be using this recipe from now on!
While this makes a very good ham, I didn't find that it tasted anything like a Honey Baked ham from The Honey Baked Ham Store. Very good recipe though.
This is the best glaze I have ever used. Makes me feel like a magician POOF disappearing ham!
Easy and tastes like the expensive honey hams.
FANTASTIC! Best ham I've ever made.
Wonderful flavor. I used a relatively inexpensive cut of ham but received rave reviews from my dinner guests.
This got rave reviews & my mom told everyone the next day what a wonderful ham dinner she had.  It was so moist & flavorful.  I didn't have dark corn syrup, so I used the lite corn syrup with some brown sugar and didn't use the cloves.  It was great -- forget paying the high prices for the Honey Baked Ham -- this is just as good, if not better.
would double the recipe next time
Made this for Christmas dinner and it was EXCELLENT. I substituted brown sugar (a full cup) for the corn syrup, and only used 1 cup of honey. Everyone loved it and we've agreed to never spend money on the name brand again!
This was yummy. I also add pinapples with pinapple juice and brown sugar to mine.
I do not like ham.  But, I had to bake one, so I tried this recipe.  I now love ham!  I had a 10 pound ham, basted like clockwork but had a lot of glaze left over.  Next time I will cut the glaze ingredients in half. I carefully folded two sheet of foil together to line the roaster.  Practically zero work to clean-up.
This ham is fantastic, I just leave out the cloves because we don't care for them.  Had this for Christmas dinner and it was a hit with the entire family.
After making ham with this glaze I was told by my husband to not "ever try another recipe again".  I use the dark corn syrup and honey with butter and every 15 minutes I added a little more glaze to the ham.  Because I always get the spiral sliced ham, I put wooden skewers in the ham to keep it from falling.  I have used ground cloves as well as whole cloves and did not notice a difference between the two.  I have had hams up to 12 pounds and just used one recipe on it.  WONDERFUL!!!
LOVED IT! I tried this glaze instead of my usual glaze for my Thanksgiving ham and my family really enjoyed it.  My son will only eat ham so I usually try to find variations for him. Like other reviewers, I did substitute brown sugar for the dark corn syrup and am glad I did. Thanks for sharing.
I also substituted brown sugar for the corn syrup. This recipe is deliscious! I use the cheapest bone in ham I can find and slice it kind of thick.
very delicious. Mom and dad loved it!
It tasted good. Definitely line the pan with foil. I substituted brown sugar for the corn syrup. I also cut down the amount of butter and honey.
This ham was a BIG hit on Christmas Eve in that everyonbe who ate it loved it! My father-in-law even told me that it was"the best ham he's ever eaten!"
My husband used this glaze on our Easter ham, which was spiral cut, and he basted avery 15 minutes.  It turned out absolutely wonderful!  Everyone just raved about it.  It does taste like a Honey Baked ham.
Very good - not as good as Honey Baked in my opinion, but definately easy to do and a more affordable option!
This recipe took a little work, but it was totally worth it!  I made it last night for a dinner party and my guests raved!  I totally recomend this one
This was incredibly easy to make and delicious to eat!
Tasty ham!  Due to a shortage of honey in my house, I cut this recipe in half and still had plenty of glaze.  Instead of whole cloves, I put ground cloves in the glaze.  I thought it really added to the flavor.  The only thing keeping this from being 5 stars is that I, like a few others, would prefer brown sugar to the corn syrup.  The ham did have a wonderful appearance as well as a good flavor.
Well worth the extra time it takes to baste every 15 minutes.Best tasting ham I ever had.
absolutely delicious and sooo easy!
yummy!a keeper and I put it in slow cooker...turned out great...
Excellent, made it for Easter dinner, came out perfect!
very good. I made 1/2 of the glaze as suggested by others and it was plenty. Also substituted brown sugar for the syrup. You'd never know that it wasn't the popular Honey Baked Ham. Thanks for the wonderful recipe and savings $$$.
I used an 8 lb. spiral sliced ham & assumed the cooking time would be right - it was overcooked on the outside & the flavor didn't get to the inside.  I used the same sauce for my turkey breast, then dipped it in the juice as I sliced it. Very flavorful for that!  Sandy
I found out I had no corn syrup when it came time to prep the ham, so I substituted a generous portion of brown sugar in its place. I just did it all in a saucepan instead of a double boiler, too. The ham turned out moist and flavorful. I did need to create a foil tent after about the first 40 minutes or so in order to not char the top of the ham. I also placed pineapple rings over the top adorned with cherries. Thanks for the recipe.
great recipe thanks
maded it for christmas last year.  froze left overs and made ham and eggs with it too. loved it.
I always bought a honeybaked ham for holidays but now that I have this recipe, I'll save some money!. I cooked it in the crockpot using cookeratheart's reviewed suggestions. I did put the tiny carrots on the bottom and was disappointed in the taste of the carrots but maybe that's because I used a crockpot liner so the juices of the glaze was not able to caramelize the carrots, anyway the ham had a great taste, no oven, everyone loved it. Thanks for the recipe and the reviews, they really helped!
I loved it! very easy to make!
So worth it!
Why would you ever buy honey baked ham when it is so easy to make?!  We all loved this recipe and the prep time was nothing.  I payed $13 for my ham which would have cost me $60 for honey baked, can't beat that.
This is our favorite holiday ham recipe now.  We, too, substituted the brown sugar and baste it every 12 minutes (my husband who never cooks loves to do this - it's "manly cooking" in his opinion!  Thanks for the great new tradition
The glaze on this was really good.  I think I should have cooked it for someone whise more of a "ham" person.  Didnt get wonderful reviews from my husband.  Will make again for a different crowd.
Wow!  This is the best ham I ever cooked!  We turned the oven down during church, and didn't baste during that time, but it worked.  I had to substitute for the corn syrup--my father is allergic to corn, so used maple (real maple) syrup instead.  Wonderful!  I'll do it again!
This was the first ham I have ever made and it turned out alright. It didn't have as much flavor as I expected but I could of done something wrong. It was still good, thank you!
I prepared the Honey Baked Ham for Christmas Dinner and it won rave reviews.  The ham was tasty and tender and moist.  I had a 9.5lb ham and used the measurements for a 5lb.  2cups of honey was plenty as was the corn syrup.  This will be the only way I prepare ham from now on.
Even with the constant basting, the outside of the ham was too dried out for me. I think I will do it in a cooking bag next time, to keep it moister overall.
Me and my family enjoyed this very much. It gave the ham a wonderful flavor throughout the ham. I will be making this every Christmas thanks !
"Possibly the best ham I've ever tasted".  It was moist, flavorful...a complete hit!
There were no leftovers.
Great flavor. I was a little weary at first thought it would be a little too sweet but it turned out good.
My family is very picky and when I suggested that we go with anything but Honey Baked, I got lots of groans, but they agreed to try this.  They LOVED it, even my 17 year old daughter, top in the picky group, who ate only Ham for dinner.
This is the best ham!  The cloves perfectly infuse the meat; & leftovers are still moist & tasty!  Glaze is fantastic!
Excellent 5 star recipe!  A definite keeper and MUCH cheaper than a Honeybaked Ham!  :)
Deliciousness
This ham glaze really made our Easter dinner. Will use again in the years to come.
I made it with homemade maple syrup instead of honey; it was awesome!
Perfect.  Much better than preglazed hams. 
I used 12 oz honey, 1/4 c brown sugar, 1 stick butter, 1/2 t ground cloves for a 10 lb ham with little left.  Unbelievable!!
I used this recipe for a 20 lbs bone-in ham.  It tastes great.  However, even though I just used half portion of the suggested source.  I still have a lot of left over!
I made this for thanksgiving and everybody LOVED it. I followed the directions and it came out great. I a thousand percent would recommend trying this recipe. Im not a fan of cloves so next time, Im going to omit it and see if itll still taste the same.
This was so super easy I added some brown sugar,  but we had it for thanksgiving and Christmas! Loved it
I just served this for my family's Easter dinner and they all absolutely loved it!  Unfortunately, the glaze wasn't nearly as thick as I expected...but I did follow the advice of previous posters and cut the honey in half...so maybe that had something to do w/it.  
Just did not care for it.  Did not like the corn syrup taste. My first two star in two years+
So delicious! Will make again.
Delicious!  Thank You so much!
Wanted a change of pace glaze from my brown sugar pineapple basting sauve for our Easter Sunday Ham and this was perfect.  Didn't have a double boiling pan so used the microwave set on 50% until the butter melted and the ingredients blended well.  Definitely will make it again.
this was awsome!!! people LOVED this!!
Thank you Colleen for sharing this EXCELLENT recipe.  I made this for Easter and my 12-year old said it was the best ham he has ever eaten.  It was very tender and flavorful.  I baked an 11 pound ham and had just the right amount of glaze without altering the recipe.  Also, I used 1/2 tsp. of ground cloves in the glaze instead of whole cloves.
I love this recipe, but it is even better if you brine the ham first. Love it!
This was very good. I followed some of the tips from others (baking in pineapple juice first & using brown sugar with syrup) and didn't need to turn on broiler. I used 10 lb ham so didn't have much glaze left over. I also made sure I used lots of heavy duty foil!
Excellent taste, was definitely a hit! But way too much glaze left over.
Delicious! I used an 8 lb ham and had alot of glaze left over.  Next time I will cut the recipe in half.
I used molasses, light corn syrup, and honey instead of dark corn syrup. It came out beautifully!
This was wonderful!  I made it for our big family holiday dinner and everyone ate tons, with plenty of compliments.
My husband and I don't even ~love~ ham, but this was just too good.  Very, very easy....
the honey makes it the best
Not as good as Honey Baked Ham, but still a five star recipe.
Best Ham recipe!  Got rave reviews from family and dinner guests. I didnt have
Everyone loved it and I will definitely make it again.
It turned out very well!  I just made a few time saving and yummy adjustments.  Instead of adding cloves to the 6 lb ham, I added 1/4 tsp ground cloves to the honey mixture.  I also substituted brown sugar for corn syrup.  I sliced 2 lbs of carrots, drizzled them with some  of the honey mixture, and placed them at the bottom of the pain with 1/4 c of water.  I covered the ham and carrots loosely with foil, uncovering every 10-15 min to baste. During the last 5 min, I put the broiler on high and caramelized the top of the ham chunk.  Even making only 1/3 of the honey mixture, generously basting, and adding it to carrots, I had a lot left over.  The whole dish was outstanding!  Mmm... with the sweet from the honey and the salt from the ham drippings, what wonderful carrots!
Pretty good.
I used the brown sugar instead of the corn syrup. My family loved it! Dare I say that it was better than my Mom's!!! Yeah I just did!!!
It was okay.  I suggest: Fill the baking pan 1 inch with water and add the cloves there instead of on the ham. It will save some time instead of having to add the cloves one by one to the corners. Also, the water will add moisture and reduce the time for clean up.  I also made the recipe with brown sugar: 1 stick of butter, 1/2 brown sugar, 1 cup of honey. It was okay, the outside was nice and crispy but it was just okay for me.
This was excellent!  I did however make a few changes.  I used brown sugar (as suggested by some other reviews) and also added pineapples with juice, a squeeze of maple syrup and a little less cloves.  it was really delish!
I've made this ham every year for the last three years. I highly recommend this recipe, as it is always a success in my home.
The glaze didn't stick at all and just melted off so the ham had no flavor what so ever. It was just not good and I wasted my ham on it. I'll look up recipes to try to salvage my ham because no one will eat it. So So So disappointed.
This was Fabulous, we ate it for days after!
This ham comes out so delicious when I make it for family parties that leftovers are out of the question.
This was good, but the recipe make WAY TOO MUCH glaze.
Perfect!!  I have never had such a sweet tender ham!! YUM!
Very very good!!  It was too sweet for me, but My family loved it!!!  My fiancee says it's the best ham he's every had!!  I will definitely be keeping this one
The broiling at the end burned the cut tips of my ham. I had to cut that part off. Glaze was watery when putting it on.
Excellent
Wonderful recipe.  It was easy to cook, especially when I am not much of a cook.  I even added raisins to give it a little more flavour.
I did not make changes  and I  will make it  infinity ttmesss!
Like the other reviewers I used brown sugar instead of the corn syrup and I omitted the cloves. It's very sweet so I think next time I'll tweak the amounts a little bit.
This was great, I'm giving it 4 stars though because I made some alterations. I substituted brown sugar for honey, and used a couple pinches of ground cloves mixed in, instead of studding the ham with cloves.
Turned out great - thanks for the tips and all of the helpful comments!
Loved it. Used maple syrup instead as that's what I had in my fridge. (Well it is Canada. Lol) this ham was so moist and flavourful I couldn't stop eating it. 
I had planned on using the leftovers to make a soup. But I kept sneaking back to the fridge and eating pieces as a snack. Drove my wife mad. Lol. 
So good I'm making it again today. Yum.
I used ground cloves and it came out great. I also used clear corn syrup because I didn't have dark.
Best ham recipe there is!  Made it last Christmas to everyone's delight.  Will be making it every Christmas!
The ham was very good!  It didn't soak into the ham like I had thought it would, but it was very tasty.  A great addition to my Christmas Tradition.  I will be using it again this year!
I've made your recipe a few times and gave so many others a printed copy of it.
It's very well liked by this family and my in-laws just love it.  Thank you.
Great Glaze!! Make sure you buy a spiral ham!  
Really good. I used a tiny ham, and quartered the recipe, but next i'll only halve it. Not quite Honeybaked, but still really good!
Amazing, amazing, amazing!  I had a 3.5lb ham so took the advice of others:  halved the ingredients, swapped brown sugar for corn syrup, kept the amount of butter the same.  I also used an oven bag so that I could simply flip the bag in the oven every 10 minutes to baste.  This recipe won over my family - a definite keeper!!
Omitted the cloves & substituted brown sugar for the syrup... Delish! Definitely will be making this again.
This is the best recipe for making a ham dinner!  I love it and so does everyone I make it for!!  Thanks for such a great recipe!
We did not have whole cloves so I rubbed the ham with some ground clove, did the glaze as written in the recipe. The ham I bought was inexpensive but tasted great with this glaze and the clove. Made the house smell amazing.
Fantastic. I was doubtful that this would work as well as the feedback has reported, but man was it excellent. We had it on Easter, and the ham completely disappeared. I can't wait to use this one again!
I omitted the cloves and corn syrup. It came out wonderful. It tastes like an expensive store bought ham. I would definitely make it again.
This was my first time cooking a ham and I was very nervous at first it first.  However, this recipe is so easy and most of all it was delicious. I did have a 4lb ham therefore I had a lot of the glaze as leftovers. My husband loved the ham!
I made it exactly how the recipe said and it was amazing. I will make this again
Delicious! I'm not a fan of Ham but this was better than A Honeybaked Ham and way cheaper. I'LL definitely make this again.
I would make it again. This is real splurge - holidays only. As mentioned in other reviews, I used brown sugar instead of corn syrup. I used 1/3rd of the recipe (honey and butter) & 1/8 cup of brown sugar. I had PLENTY to baste/glaze a 5 lb ham.
Ill use this again!
I just had my second left-over ham sandwich.  Yumm!  This recipe is a keeper! Best ham I have ever had The ham was smoked and 90% cooked when I got it. The honey and butter combo made it perfect. I basted every fifteen minutes and it was divine. I used white Karo and added a touch of molasses for color.  Definitely try this recipe.
I made this for thanksgiving and  Christmas. It was really good.
Made this for Easter dinner!  Everybody took seconds.  I did the brown sugar instead of corn syrup, and instead of cloves I used a chai spice mix.  This one is a keeper.
Very Good!!! ham is moist, will decreased the broil temp to low to prevent getting burnt. I add 1/2 cup brown sugar to 1 cup of honey plus 1 1/2 stick of butter, just enough to baste till the end.
The best I've ever had...Wonderful!
I made this for Easter, and it turned out wonderfully!  The only drawback was having to keep popping in & out of the kitchen to add the glaze.  I will definately use this recipe again. Thanks Colleen!
Fabulous - could have easily halved the recipe and had plenty (and saved $$).  I use a spiral ham and pull the slices apart and insert mixture.  More work that way but so much better!
AMAZING!
This was very good ham.  I used fewer cloves, less corn syrup and some brown sugar as many others did.  The glaze is very sweet, but it doesn't soak into the middle of the ham much (the outer pieces were too sweet) so it works well overall.  It was also very easy to make... I'll be making it again.  Thank you.
The problem I have is with the cooking time. Generally it take 18-20 minutes per pound. Companies like Swift have it at 25min a pound and their hams have 12% water added which make for faster cooking. this 5 pound ham was cooked in 1hr 15min.
I made this folling the recipe exactly, and although I did not think it tasted like the brand name Honey Baked Hams, it was very good.  I would make this again, but I don't make hams very often, and I'm not doing the holiday cooking this year, so I won't be making one again until next year. Thanks for the recipe.
This glaze recipe tasted just like my mom's.  It was great!

very good recipe. Ham came out nice and juicy! A keeper!
Love! its a classic! I did pour whiskey and orange juice over the ham to help prevent it from being too salty and I add OJ to the basting mix. delicious
This was yummy and simple to make.  The presentation looked like an expensive ham, but it was not expensive at all.  Will do again for sure.
Wow!!!  Thats all I can say is Wow!!!
Followed the recipe without change. Do not over do the cloves.  Delicious and not complicated.
Too sweet. Had to add pineapple juice and pineapple chunks.
Amazing recipe!
used cookerathearts recommendation of brown sugar and ground cloves as I liked the sound of it better. mine was never really sticky. I cooked it in the crockpot for about 4 hours. Basting constantly. It was good, but not amazing. I might make again, but might try others.  easy to make though
Made the switch with the brown sugar. Amazing!
I left out the cloves.  I was very happy with the results and will make this my ham recipe of choice.
Do I baste the entire time it's cooking or the last few minutes.
Good recipe!  I didn't use the cloves and I subsituted brown sugar for the corn syrup.  Didn't need to turn the broiler on because I found that it had carmelized just fine without it.  Too much maybe.  Taste was delicious though.
I did make some changes based on others reviews and used dark brown sugar instead of the dark corn syrup. I will use this from now on for ham glaze. No need to double the recipe for 10lb ham.
I really wanted to like this recipe and give it 5 stars after reading all the rave reviews. However, it was just o.k.
I will stick to making my pineapple,cherry and brown sugar glaze. I was hoping this would give me the taste and texture of the Original Honeybaked Ham, but it diddnt.The glaze was flavorful, but I found it to be bothersome basting so much and it diddnt make that much of an impact on me. Was'nt bad by any means but was'nt spectacular either.
Very good.  Made for a very moist ham.  The only thing I would change text time is to double foil my pan.  Very hard to clean.
Like most other reviews, I used brown sugar instead of corn syrup, this was the best ham I've ever had, I will always use this recipe in the future.
This was my first ham.  I baked it for Easter dinner.  It was a huge hit.  Everyone loved it and came back for seconds.  I will make this again.
This was a great recipe that I will use again. It was easy, and left my guests begging for more!
I don't use the cloves.  Great simple ham with lots of flavor!
Perfect, an Easter success. I made half the glaze for A 7 lb boneless ham. I used Orange blossem honey, and 1/2 cup of butter and had plenty of glaze left over.
Good flavor, but a lot of work.  Next time I would cut the glaze in half.  I wasted too much honey.
I think I overcooked it since it came out a little dry. I blame my oven as it didn't seem hot. Follow the directions. I am going to try it again but in a slow cooker.
I made this today for the first time. I've tried many other ham recipes for the holidays. This recipe was THE ABSOLUTE BEST!!. I changed a few things. I did not use cloves at all. I mistakenly bought a ham that was smoked but not pre cooked. So I par boiled it as the directions on the plastic stated. I then made the glaze, deeply scored the ham & put it in a oven bag. I let it marinate over night, turning the ham several times. When I put it in the oven, I ended up removing the bag in order to baste it a few times. The whole family, including the in-laws raved!!! So moist & delicious, you don't even need any extra juice with it.
Yummy.  I did not put it on until half way done.  I did use 1/2 cup of brown sugar in the mix.
Good, but had leftover sauce.  Would make less next time.
This was pretty tasty.  Used brown sugar instead of dark corn syrup.
Mouth-watering!
I heated  the (fully-cooked) ham in an oven bag for 2 hours. The bag self-basted the ham. My first time cooking a whole ham, and it came out GREAT.
your  ham is a very watering experiance that me and my family enjoyed  all thew way done to the bone.
What a easy and delicious way to prepare ham. Thanks for sharing the recipe!
This recipe was fantastic.  My family usually gets a Honey Baked ham, but my husband and I thought we'd give this a try.  Everyone who was used to the expensive Honey Baked ham that this one was GREAT.  I am not a big ham person, but I would definitely make this again.
Late in the review, but we made this at Easter and received raves from family and friends.  It was very easy, too leaving time for visting with our company!
I made this for Christmas dinner tonight and it received rave reviews!  Never thought of putting ham in a crock pot, but will probably never bake again!  The key to this recipe is basting as much as possible.  I also substituted the syrup for brown sugar and used ground cloves. At the end I added pineapple and its juices, which my husband loved!  This ham recipe is wonderful and I'll be using it for years to come.
This glaze made my plain ol' ham taste like a real honey baked ham!  Everone loved it!
I a ham twice as large as recipe calls for but you don't have to double the glaze.  Excellent flaovr
I cooked on smoker for 3-4 hrs at 225 F.  The first 2 hrs cook uncovered in foil pan basting every 20-30 minutes liberally.  I had to make more sauce as I ran out.  The last 1-2 hrs cover with foil.  When internal temp reaches 140-145 F remove from smoker.  I then coat one last time with glaze and broil on low in oven for 3-4 minutes to carmelize before serving.
Excellent ham! We drizzled the leftover glaze over the slices.
I don't know what happened, but my ham was moist and tasted good - but was not sweet at all. It was alot of work to be basting it so much, and have it turn out like a regular ham.
This was a HUGE hit at Christmas! Simply wonderful! Thank you for this recipe!!!!
This was awesome. I didn't do anything different and it turned out great.
This was great and very easy.
turned out great! need to try this as a wet rub to get a true honey baked ham next time.
No Changes were made. It was very good.
I used a uncooked smoked picnic 9lb ham. I started basting it after it reached about 100. I will start basting later next time because it took over 7 hours! I used 1/2 cup brown sugar, 1/2 cup of butter, 1 cup of honey and a pinch of ground cloves and a splash of lemon juice. I'm still not a big fan of ham but it was really moist and husband and kids loved it. I also used crisscrossing aluminum foil in my roaster loosely covered the ham and cleanup was a breeze.
While this recipe doesn't leave the finished ham with that famous HoneyBaked 'crunch', it is still very tasty.  At the last minute I discovered I was out of whole cloves, so I used whole allspice berries, leaving them in the basting sauce to infuse flavor.  After basting an 8 lb ham every 10 min, there was still enough sauce left over for my husband to use as 'gravy' atop whole baked sweet potatoes.  Thanks for making Easter dinner delicious!
This was good, but I wasn't that thrilled.  To be fair, I didn't use a bone-in ham which is always better (someone gave me the boneless one).  I really did think the glaze was the consistency of the honey baked ham I've had before...I think they use brown sugar and cook it differently.
I have made this on several occasions.  My wife calls it "crack" Apparently, is that addicting.
I made this for Easter and it was a hit.  Some people even stated that they didnt like ham, but then they tried this and they did!
Wonderful!
I made adjustments to the glaze as suggested in the reviews &  it was a great success!
Delicious!  I'm not a big ham lover, but I made this for the family for thanksgiving dinner - not a bit left!  Big hit!
WOW! Exceptionally glazed and juicy ham! I replaced the corn syrup with 1/3 cup brown sugar and it came out extremely juicy! Somewhat smokey, and sweet! I would line everything in aluminum foil and keep the glaze warm in a mini-crockpot.
Just made this glaze for my sons christening and it was a huge hit. We even had to cook the ham prior to leaving for the ceremony and it was still juicy and delicious! I had a 11 pound ham and kept the same measurement as listed. I did substitute 1/4 cup brown sugar for the corn syrup and I cooked the ham in a bag for 2 hours. I then poured on the glaze and basted the ham for the last half hour. Excellent!! Will always use this glaze on my hams.
YUM
Very good glaze. This was the first ham I have ever made and everyone said it was the best ham they had ever had. I made this for a big group at Easter dinner. I will be making it next year no doubt.
I add a can of pineapples and some cloves.
Ham had a great taste but it was a little dry.
Added zero changes.  This ham was amazing.  I went with a ham shank and cooked in an oven bag.  See ya later Honeybakec Ham.
Great recipe!  Made for Christmas dinner, everyone loved it!  Thank you!
I've made this many times.  Good flavor and very simple.  Sticky sweet., great contrast with a salty ham.  I like to use a non-sliced ham when I make this because it's a little juicier than a spiral sliced ham.  It also stays juicier in the fridge if you just slice what you need.  It's also cheaper, and if you notice when you go to a carving station in a restaurant, it's never pre-sliced.
This was very tasty! Made for a very tender, flavorful ham! I used an 8 pound spiral cut ham and still cut the recipe in half and had plenty of glaze! I would definitely make this again.
What a disappointment .  I followed the recipe and did the oven bag that was recommended.    I bought a pre-sliced 4 lb cooked ham.  It came out tough and nasty.    I'm heading to Honeybaked Ham.  I get I'm the only one. The rest of you all know what you are doing.   I obviously don't.
Huge hit with the family and friends. I used a sugar cured spiral sliced ham, local clover honey, and followed the recipe to the letter. I highly recommend this Honey Glazed Ham. Instead of the broiler to finish, I used my convetion setting on my oven. 
Made it for friendsgiving in competition (and won)! It was a hit!
I added  1/4 cup yellow mustard to the glaze. The han turned out great. I will make this again.
this was really good!! used the brown sugar instead of the corn syrup as suggested and used 1/4 tsp of ground cloves!
I love a good honey ham
I love this recipe.I made it exactly as the recipe said and me and my family loved it.My ham was so tender and delicious.I will definitely use this recipe again!
I really enjoyed this recipe & it made the house smell wonderful.  I agree that you can scale back a bit.  I made 1.5 the original recipe for a 9 pound ham & still had tons more glaze than I really needed.  I also used about half the cloves suggested, and it was still flavorful.  A suggestion for other fellow novice ham bakers - put the cloves in BEFORE scoring the ham.  Thanks for the great recipe!  Will use again for certain.
6 stars! And I don't even like ham! I made it for the whole family for Chritmas Eve this year and it was as good as the honey baked ham for 1/4 the price! I used a spiral ham w/ bone. I substituted honey for the corn syrup. Wonderful!!
This was soooo good.  I tried this recipe out when we had company over and they asked for the recipe it was so good.
Tastes good...like a ham should.  I have made it twice, though, and both times have had to bake it longer than what the recipe called for.
This tasted wonderful! We had to adjust the sauce a little to our taste. I don't think I've ever had a jucier ham.
Delicious! I did not add cloves and I used brown sugar rather than corn syrup. I basted ever 20 minutes. It came out juicy and delicious!! Thank you for sharing this recipe!
Should I cut down the cooking time if Im buying a pre-baked 1.3-2.0lb ham?
Everyone altered this recipe so much that it isnt really a review you can rely on. It leaves you thinking Is it a good one or not a good one.
I like the flavor but 5 minutes under broiler was too long to caramelize and burned it. It looked good before that. Ill watch it next time while it broils.
I changed the recipe slightly based on some of the comments - I used 1/4 cup of brown sugar, 1 cup of solid wildflower honey and 1/2 cup of butter. I also didn't scour as deeply as requested because I like the diamond pattern but not the splitting that comes with it. It was beautiful and delicious!
Fabulous! Best tasting Han I have ever tasted, best texture too. 10 out of 10! My entire party (about 12) loved it. Easy and delicious!
A couple additions with  glaze recipe is plenty.   I combine a couple extras from another recipe on this site to  (with exception of the butter) of the baste recipe.  
I used:  1c. honey (local of course),  2/3c. butter, 1/4c. brown sugar, 1/4tsp ground cloves, 2 tbls of orange juice, and  tsp. ground cinnamon on an 11 lbs spiral sliced ham.  Absolutely awesome !!   Color me happy ?   With  of the baste, I still had some leftover.   Other additions included carrots.they are great too.  One last addition was the final baste with brown sugar, turn the oven on broil, and cook for no more than 2:30 minutes (no longer, be careful for burn) for the outside crunch.   I will absolutely make this again and use the ham hock for a bean soup.   Apologize for the long write-up here, but definitely try.you wont be disappointed.
Excellent!!  I did add brown sugar and only half of the dark corn sryup. The sweetness went all through the ham.  My husband loved it!!!!
This recipe was good, but it still doesn't come close to those famous honey baked hams.  The preparation is simple and cooking is a breeze (follow the exact recipe and you can't go wrong), which is perfect for the holiday season.  I'll hang on to this one, but I'll continue to look for another ham recipe.
I only made the basting sauce and put on spiral ham while resting out of oven. The packaged sauce that came with my ham was unusable. This was fantastic and I would use every time going forward!!!
This was a really good ham, but not the best I've had.  I still prefer the cooking bag method. It's much juicier.  I found this ham to be a bit dry, but still had really good flavor.  My kids loved it.  Maybe next time I'll try combining the 2 some how.  Thanks!
I combined the brown sugar with the honey and butter - and I liked it alot, but it wasn't as thick as I would like.  May decrease the butter next time.
I also used brown sugar instead of karo syrup and it turned out great. Will use this recipe from now on when making my ham.
Makes a lot the whole family loved it. This is my new go to ham glaze
This recipes is outstanding.  Throw out that packet of seasonings & glaze that come with the ham!  This is all you need. I've used it several times and it's always great.
I made t the glazed ham. I added a third cup of Orange juice to the glaze it was a hit. I think I'll use this  recipe for Easter.
yes I did make some change(changes coming soon) ham turn out great family love it thank you
So good even my MIL who never eats meaat had a piece! Kids loved it. Nothing went to waste!!!
Made this for my son's 18th birthday party and this was a big hit. use 10 pounds of sliced ham and there was nothing left over.
I cut the glaze ingredients in half and subbed brown sugar for the corn syrup. I got lucky and this amt. was just right for my 10 lb. ham. I ended up baking it for about 2hrs. 15 min. since it was so big. The results were delicious! This will be our Easter tradition. Thanks so much for a great recipe!
I made this to go with our store bought spiraled ham for Thanksgiving 2017. It was very good! I had a 10lb ham so i considered doubling the recipe... but i didn't. I used $10 worth of honey as it is, and had a lot leftover. Next time I need to halve this. It was very good.
I used a store-bought spiral sliced ham and this was absolutely Delicious!!  I did something wrong so the glaze wasn't as think as it should have been, but it didn't affect the flavor a bit.  I used a "throw-away"  aluminum pan so I wouldn't have to fight the expected baked-on honey, but thankfully that wasn't a problem.  And as others did, I used brown sugar instead of syrup. Next time I'll do as others suggested and coat the ham with brown sugar for broiling a few minutes at the end.
I used brown sugar instead of dark corn syrup and it was so nummy!! The whole family loved it for our Christmas dinner..I will definitely cook this again!
Loved it! So very good! We truly enjoyed our ham ! Thank You for sharing, this is a keeper!
This glaze helped to create the most juciest ham I ever made.
Very pleased with this recipe. Thank you.
This was the best tasting ham I have ever made! I will use this recipe again and again! Thank you!
THE recipe for us from now on. I used a foil pan this time but it was a little flimsy so it could have been dangerous. Especially since I made the full amount of glaze and it's as hot as molten lava.  I'd go with a heavy pan heavily covered in foil the next time. I ladled the glaze over my spiral ham every fifteen minutes or so. The result was yummy sweetness on every last slice. I just made my five pound ham last night and read the reviews the next morning. So, since I have plenty of glaze and leftover ham; I'll be surprising my husband with the addition of honey butter glazed carrots in his lunch. Write this one down in your recipe books kids. You'll need it again.
Just ok
I used a pre-sliced ham, and baked it for about an hour.  The edges were a little overcooked for my taste, but the glaze was awesome.  A very simple recipe that everyone loved.
this was pretty good.  personally i think i would have preferred it with brown sugar instead of the corn syrup possibly mixed with a little pineapple or orange juice.  the idea of finishing it off under the broiler is a magnificent idea, it gives it a wonderful glazed sheen.
I am trying the ham in the bag - adding all glaze and turning the ham every 15 minutes.  added cloves as well.  I will be back with the results!
excellent flavor and moist
My whole family enjoyed this one.  I thought the outside was too tough but my husband likes it that way and so I'll probably continue to make it on special occasions.  The process also adds alot of flavor and is worth the every 15 minute basting.  Thanks
I too used brown sugar and no cloves.  I was serving at a large party so I sliced the ham first then put the glaze on and baked for two hours.
Ham and glaze was amazing. I was a first time ham warmer, so I read almost 200 reviews from this glaze and studied all the pictures. We have a small crowd (only 6 ham eaters) and I had already picked up a 10lb spiral cut Smithfield ham. After looking at the pictures I decided not to score the top because of the loose pieces. Used a Hasty Bake grill (amazing) Got the grill to a steady 280 indirect heat, basted every thirty minutes. I kept the ham flat side down the whole time, this only took about 100 minutes which was way shorter than the planned time. I cant think of a ham Ive had that was better, but Im not a pro ham taster either, Ive probably only eaten 2 per year for the last 35 years and never warmed one up. Summary of the changes
We made this recipe for christmas dinner. The ham came out really juicy and flavorful. Honestly it was the best ham I have ever made. I used a fully cooked ham so I didn't have to worry about it getting under cooked. It took a long time to cook because of the basting every 15 minutes but it was well worth it.
This was great.  Not a big ham fan but this was wonderful.  Used brown sugar like was suggested and cooked spiral ham for 45 mins.  The ham just melted in your mouth.  My son who eats nothing has asked if I would make this again next Sunday.  Much better price and taste wise than the national brand 
i didn't cook a whole ham, only ham slices; so decreased the amts and used some juice to deglaze the pan; and sometimes sub honey with molasses (gives ham nice, dark color).
We had two hams for Easter, but the one made with this recipe was devoured while the other one was pretty much ignored until this one was all gone.  Perfect, juicy, flavorful ham.  I've made dozens, and this is the best I've found and will be my new and only recipe.  Thanks!!
make half of glaze for 5lb ham and use brown sugar in place of corn syrup.
This was my first time making a spiral cut ham and it came out great.  This sauce is yummy.  I followed some of the other reviewers suggestion and change the sauce to 1/4 cup brown sugar, 2/3 cup butter, 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves, and 1 cup of honey - this makes a lot of sauce.  I had alot left for a 8 lb ham.  My husband loved it.  I will make this again.
I made this for Christmas day and it was fabulous!!! Followed other reviewers advice & replaced the corn syrup with brown sugar. The glaze was a beautiful colour, shiny & delicious with the salty ham. Will be using this as my glaze from now on. Thanks so much!
This recipe was great and EASY! Even my husband noticed the different from the hams I did before. I can actually say this ham lasted until it was to the BONE! Thanks for sharing!
I would definitely make it again it was delicious my company loved it I will definitely make it again
Very moist and simple recipe. Everyone loved it!
Absolutely wonderful.  I served this last Christmas and everyone loved it.  I plan on using this receipe again this year.  Thanks.
Added sliced carrots to bottom of pan for last 30-40 minutes ~ really great.
A little too clove-y. But sweet and tender. Yum.
This was one of the best hams that I have made on Christmas. Didn't think it was that hard, and really turned out great.
FANTASTIC!!! LOL, and I hate ham!
I did end up with a little too much glaze at the end and will reduce the volume the next time around.
right
I use brown sugar and Sorghum  syrup,  instead of corn syrup and honey. Turned out to be a great ham.
Great site. Easy to use.
EXCELLENT!  This was a really easy recipe that made in INCREDIBLE ham.  I just stuck the cloves right into my ham, because it was already sprial cut, and the flavor still really came through.  I had an eight pound ham, and still had PLENTY of  glaze left over.  I tented my ham during its cooking time, but don't know if that really helped anything.
Excellent recipe!!! I cut the glaze in half, and still had plenty. The ham stayed very moist and had a wonderful flavor. I'll use this recipe every time I cook ham. Thanks!
This was oh my god good!! First ham I've ever made and I was so impressed with myself. Just as other reviews said, I swapped in brown sugar for the syrup, only made a half batch of the glaze and lastly, I subbed ground cloves for the whole cloves because that's what I had on hand. Don't be scared to make your own ham, you can do!!
Excellent!  I didnt use the cloves, and I only used honey, butter and butter melted together for the basting!
I made this last holiday with brown sugar and very happy with the recipe.  Easy and tasty!!  This year I made this ham twice...one with the brown sugar substitute and with the corn syrup... the corn syrup tasted better and more like the famous and EXPENSIVE honey glazed ham everyone buys.   The brown sugar just added sweetness, but the corn syrup had more deep flavor and sweetness that melded all the flavors together.  Will make this recipe with corn syrup from now on!!  Thank you for the recipe!!
I can't really state why this did not work for me.  Maybe just too sweet?  Sugary?  I don't know.  My family did not like this very much either.
Followed the recipe increasing for 9 lb ham and it turned out great!  Took a bit longer to cook
I was thrilled with this one so I had to let everyone know.  It was simple and delicious!  The whole family enjoyed.....  Thanks.
I combined this recipe with the recipe for Sweet Bourbon Ham and it was awesome.
I had stopped eating ham about 15 years ago because the baked hams were either too salty or sweet and the deli ham was flavorless.  Then my dad asked me to make ham for Easter.  he bought it and got a mustard sauce packet to go with it and it was okay, and then the Thanksgiving before last I bought a fresh ham from the butcher and made this recipe and now I really enjoy this ham.  
I've made a few changes here and than.  I use raw honey, which is expensive but for this recipe is great.  I've used both brown sugar and mixed molasses with sugar both are good it just depends on what you have in your house.
I took others' advice and made 1/2 the sauce...excellent idea.  I didn't think it tasted quite like HoneyBaked but it was delicious!  Everyone loved it as well!
I had a bone-in ham to make for Easter dinner and used this recipe exactly as it was written.  It turned out great, and I got lots of compliments.  Next time around I may make a few changes and opt for the brown sugar instead of the karo syrup.  Thanks for the delicious ham recipe!
I just served this for Easter Supper and it was wonderful.  I used a spiral-sliced ham and it still came out great.  My whole family thought so too and I had to send them all home with some leftovers.
I used a 4lb sliced ham and halved the recipe and followed Cookeratheart's suggestions (ground clove, brown sugar, etc) except only used  stick of butter.  I also added some cornstarch to the glaze and cooked it down to thicken it up and thought the consistency was perfect for glazing.  I didn't even need to keep it on the burner, the heat from the oven was enough (didn't do the double boiler thing at all).  Very easy, if a little time consuming to baste to so often, but well worth it.  Will definitely use again and again.  Thanks!!
Everyone loved this recipe! Got great reviews.  I too used brown sugar instead of the syrup.
This was my first time ever making a ham, of any kind. I followed the other reviews as much as possible when I made this because i had no idea what I was doing. The whole messiness of this recipe made me lean more toward using a slow cooker. So thats how I did it. So, for all of you slow cooker folks, I hope this review will help you. Side Note: Ive never had a Honey Baked Ham in my life. So when everyone was comparing this ham to that one..well I can't say much, but I do know that this one was delicious!

I tried to find a 5lb ham. That was impossible. The smallest I found was 8. something (we will just say 8). I had a choice between shank or butt. I chose butt because it was the smallest one I could find, but I hear a shank is better? But my butt was just fine. ha.

My tweaks included: 8lb ham instead of 5lb. 1/4t gound cloves (my boyfriend hates cloves and he couldn't even tell this was in there...and in all honesty neither did I. So don't run out and buy ground cloves if you don't have any on hand) 1/4cup BROWN SUGAR (instead of corn syrup), 1 Cup honey (I started out with 1/4c and there was definitely NOT enough glaze for my ham with that), and I would use the whole amount of butter it says, so 2/3C butter, I had to use less because that was all I had by the time I started this recipe and I wasn't about to leave the house in my Pjs.

So I kept that glaze warm (be careful because I left mine and came back to it almost bubbling over). I scored the ham (check out how to do 
Very moist and tasty ham.  Will use this recipe from now on.
The glaze is so amazing. The only change I made was like another person and put ground cloves and left it warm on the stove and basted every 15-20 minutes or so. The glaze is so good. I did use the brown sugar instead of syrup...This is so amazing. Thank you ... Thank you...Thank you.
This was good but messy to make and clean up.  I just didn't think it made the ham much better for the amount of effort.
This is great. I cooked mine in the Char broil Big Easy. Super moist and delicious.
I thought this was a great recipe.  My hame came out wonderful, especially considering it was the first I've ever made.  Thanks for the great recipe!!
I did a trial run before making it on Easter its the most delicious ham Ive ever made I did lots basting and it really turned out good. Thank you so much for such a lovely recipe 
   Sandy Miller   I look forward to many more in
I have not done this yet, trying to decide for this Easter.  BUT, how do you make crazy for your potatoes?
I will definitely make this again. Simple to do and tastes great!
used this for our easter ham-everybody loved it!  thanks for sharing.
Simply fantabulous.
I agree with everyone else!  This recipe is fabulous.  The first time I made it, I did it in the oven.  Then I tried it on my Big Green Egg grill!!! Wow!  If you don't have a Green Egg, try it on your grill anyway.  Put the ham in a rack with a drip pan under it!
Really easy-to-follow directions, and VERY good! 
I used brown sugar instead of corn syrup and added a splash of orange juice.  This turned out really well.
I added a small about of apple cider. and a little bit of mustard.
Made this on Thanksgiving at the request of my son.  Used a cheap bone-in ham that had not been pre-sliced.  Tried to slice it and smear the glaze in between the slices; that was kinda hard.  Put it into an oven bag and flipped it periodically while cooking.  That was kinda hard too.  Once it came out of the oven, it was really good.  Next time I'll splurge on a spiral sliced ham.
This was delish! I made this for Christmas dinner and was complimented many times on the flavor. I am now designated to the ham evey time. I pretty much followed the recipe however I added my own touches. I used brown sugar instead of corn syrup, I also used powered cloves instead of the whole ones and mixed it in with the glaze. I also added 3/4 cups of bourbon to the glaze while preparing it. Since many  commented on how messy it can get I used a roasting granite pot with lid to cook it in.
This is a holiday favorite!
It is a great recipe.  Husband liked it and so did the rest of family.
I don't eat ham, but my husband said this was the best ham he's ever had--nice and juicy with great flavoring from the basting.  I ended up using only 1/2 the cloves called for in the recipe and was told that I could have even gone with a little less than that.
My husband loved this ham recipe. He asked me if it was a honey baked ham. And hes a very picky person when it comes to food
Loved it!  Even our little picky eaters ate everything on their plate.  I used my pressure cooker.
Yummy!
Great glaze. I had a 12 lb ham, so I didn't have enough to baste every 15 minutes. I just added about another 4 tablespoons of butter and some maple syrup, because I used all the honey I had in the cupboard. I also added a few dashes of ground allspice and ground cloves to cut the sweetness from the syrup. Many compliments on the ham.
Love it
This glaze mixture works very well. Do not forget the "broiling step to caramelize it.  This works well. In my view, the listed amounts for the glaze make too much, so the next time I will reduce each by a third. I made a 6 pound ham, basted every 15 minutes, but still had a lot of glaze to dump. Not a criticism, just a suggestion.
Love! My ham turned out sooo Yummy!
Family loved it
This was good but not as good as a Honey Baked Ham.  We really liked it though!
The ham turned out great.  Great taint and very moist. Everyone loved it.
This was my first attempt at a home made glazed ham recipe. After tasting the results I will not purchase a store bought honey glazed ham again. What a delicious recipe. Thank you for sharing this.
This definately is a five star ham!
Turned out pretty good!!  After I got nice carmelization, I covered the ham loosely with foil to prevent burning...we loved it!
Not bad. Nothing to write home about. But will use it again until I find something else.
This recipe is outrageous!!
Excellent!  Had it for dinner tonight!
excellent. Simple.   good eats
Was the BEST  Ham i have EVER  Made Loved It and Hubby Approved .He does NOT like Pineapple so i was so Happy when i found this recipe. Will NEVER use another  , I cooked mine in a cooking bag in the oven , I  Took it out to Baste every 20 minutes.I just had the Tie at the top of the Bag so it was easy access folded down basted and tied it back back in the oven it went .Nice and juicy falling off the Bone Ham.I Used a 1/2 cup of brown sugar instead of Dark Corn syrup cause that is what i had on hand  only change i made.
This was a good glaze, however, I expected it to have more of a punch and lasting effect on the ham.  Everyone enjoyed it very much and will prepare it again so cant slam it to much
Only changes I made were substituted brown sugar for dark Karo syrup. I doubled the glaze recipe because I had a 13.5 lb Cumberland Gap ham. My dear husband my official taste tester loved it. We will definitely have this again.
Thanks so much for the recipe.
I made this for christmas, and it was wonderful.  It is a keeper!!
This was just plain.  I took into account other reviews but the sweet flavors just never got to the insides of the ham only the outer pieces and I did baste every 10 min. I will stick to the pkg. glaze that comes with it .  Thanks though
I used this glaze for yesterday's Easter dinner.  Used brown sugar instead of corn syrup as others suggested.  I have to say, I was in such a tizzy in the kitchen all day that I didn't put the glaze on until about 1/2 way thru cooking and threw some pineapple slices on top the last 1/2 hour.  I think I dumped the pineapple juice on top too.  I don't even know how close I came to the measurements called for - I was just dumping stuff in the saucepan!  But it came out WONDERFUL!!!  Even my kids gobbled it up (which is saying A LOT)!  I  used an 8lb butt portion, not spiral sliced.
Easy enough to make and had a good flavor.
Made it exactly as described and my Papa who has terminal cancer and barely eats came back for seconds!! We will have this regularly.
This recipe is perfect! I doubled the ingredients as I had a 14 pound ham and it was the best ham I have ever made. My family loved it and this one is going in my permanent recipe box! Thanks so much for sharing it.
this was the first time i ever made christmas dinner. everyone loved it. i omitted the cloes just for taste preference. it was great
Rave reviews by all!!
I, too, made this for Easter, using a 5-lb. Kraukus ham. But since we had a big brunch that morning, I made it for hot ham sandwiches and side dishes later in the day. Loved the combination of the glazed ham on an onion roll! Will definitely make this again, and not just as part of a ham dinner but for a more informal menu as well. Rye and pumpernickel were good with the glazed ham, too.Thanks for posting!
It was a hit , one comment I got was , hands down the best ham I've ever had
Absolutely wonderful!!!  This was so easy & the taste was divine!  Thank you, Thank you!!  What a great money saver! 
My new "go to" glaze for ham. Simple to make and the whole family loved it. I then take the leftover glaze that I havent used and add it to the pan drippings and use it to make ham and bean soup the next day.
This was my first attempt at a ham, and my husband deemed it a triumph!  If I ever make another ham, I will come back to this recipe.  It's tasty, simple, and easy to vary.
No changes.  It was great
Love, Love, Love it!!  I have made this so many times and it has always come out perfect!  This is my standard company and holiday ham.  Perfect!
Fantastic.  I made this for Easter dinner - the first time I'd ever made a ham - ever.  The meat was unbeleivably tender, and perfectly flavored, without being too cloyingly sweet.  Even my husband loved it, and he generally hates honey.  This was a hit with the grownups and kids alike, and I'll Definately be making it again soon.
Absolutely Amazing!!!!  I will never buy an expensive Honey Baked again....This cost only a fraction to make, but tastes every bit as good, if not better.  Thanks so much for sharing Colleen!
Everyone loved this! Beautiful presentation. Would make this again anytime.
One of the best glazes I've had.  Very easy to make and the cloves are a nice touch.
Wonderful simple recipe for a wonderfully tasteful and beautiful ham! Make sure you score it a bit deep, 1/2-3/4 inch. Dont omit the broiler portions sit leaves a beautiful color!
I have made this several times and it is AWESOME. The leftovers are phenomenal!! After making it a few times I found the whole cloves to be a real pain, especially when you have tons of other stuff to do. I used ground cloves and added it to the heated mixture that I basted the ham with. It was still amazing!!
Awesome.   Just made this for a trial run for Thanksgiving with a 2 pound small ham.  Delicious--like others said even with the glaze halved it still was a lot left over.  Only thing I didn't do correct was broil it enough because I was worried about burning it.   I didn't get the "crusty" edge I was wanting--but it was still yummy.  Also, I lined my pan with 2 pieces of wax paper instead of foil and it came right out--a few pieces stuck, but came out after soaking for like 2 min.  Easy clean up!
This turned out delicious. Im using it to make lunch meat ham. So good I dont think I will go back to store bought.
I loved it!..so did my family and they are very hard to please..thanks
I followed all of Cookeratheart's suggestions - only 1 c. honey, and 1/4 tsp cloves instead of the whole cloves and I sliced my whole ham before I put it in the crockpot.  We loved it!!!  Even my picky sister & brother who don't like ham thought this was fabulous!
This ham was very good but the skin got very hard very quickly.  Watch it closely when you put it in the broiler.
I used this recipe to cook a bone in ham for New Years dinner.  I cooked for 13 people and everyone raved about it.  We are used to Honey Baked Hams and this was just as good if not better.  You will not be disapointed with the response from your guests with this recipe.  Thank you .
Followed the reviews with using brown sugar and cooking in a roasting bag.  It turned out so moist and amazing!!  Everyone raved about the ham!  For sure the best I've made!!  Thank you so much!!
I had a 7.5 LBS Costco spiral sliced ham. Used the recipe basting ingredients except subbed brown sugar for the corn syrup as that is not an ingredient I buy or have on hand. I cut the glaze in half and it was plenty and added 1/8 t ground cloves to the glaze (I didn't stud the ham with whole cloves) although 1/4 t cloves might have been better. I put the ham in an oven bag w/ 1T flour, poured the slightly cooled glaze over the ham and placed the bag on a heavily foil lined 13X9 baking dish. I didn't cut holes in the oven bag. Cooked at 275 degrees for 12 mins per LBS. I turned the ham in the bag every so often, maybe every 20-30 mins. Came out great. I figured I could have removed the ham and juices from the bag at the end cooking time and broiled the ham for a few mins to crust up the outside, but I didn't on this go around.
really didn't like the taste of this glaze
My husband loved this recipe.  Said it was the best ham he had ever had!
I substituted brown sugar in place of corn syrup. This was absolutely fabulous!!! Will make again and again.
Only thing I did different was to keep the glaze over a low burner for the duration of the cooking, instead of in the oven.  BEST ham I've ever had, hands down.  I cooked it for our Christmas celebration with my FIL, and even he couldn't stop raving about it.  It was juicy and sweet and everything a ham should be.  AWESOME!
Really one of the best glazes I have ever had! This will be my one and only ham glaze.
It MADE my Easter day. The family loved it. I looked like a star. Thanks!
Great sauce!
What a great recipe!  This was my first (and definitely not my last) ham that I've ever baked myself.  I had a ten pounder (with bone) and used about half the honey (ran out), a couple sprinkles of ground clove (didn't have any whole ones), and subbed brown sugar for the corn syrup, as I saw other reviewers recommend, and still had plenty of glaze.  Not sure if it was the cut of meat, or my stove being gas, but mine came out with a great crust...I actually had to cover mine with foil to prevent the outside from getting TOO crunchy....maybe because my ham wasn't precooked?  Anyway, it was a big hit, and I can't wait to find out how the leftovers are tonight!  Thanks Colleen!!
I've been using this recipe for the past 4 years and I love it:)
This was very good!
made it many times, never disappointing
Excellent.  Went down very well at Easter.
This was fantastic!  The glaze was perfect the only thing I changed was the amount of cloves, I only used about half of what the recipe called for.  I will definitely use tis recipe again!
children loved it, quick and easy plus delish
This recipe was an Easter success! I did not need to broil in the last step as it caramelized without it.
I thought this was a really nice addition to my easter ham.  I only cut slices halfway into the ham-- next time I think I might cook my ham first next time, then cut it up, then glaze it, then pop it back into the oven for a bit longer.  Then the glaze can get all over every piece.
Pretty tasty and very sweet.
Delicious and ready to make
I left out the corn syrup and added 1/3 c brown sugar. Super yummy!!
Okay, so I had my daughters teachers from middle to high school request this for their home! Ha!
It is just SO GOOD!
I made this using an 8 lb. precooked unsliced ham. I used 1/2 cup brown sugar, 1/3 cup butter and 1 cup honey. I also threw in about 1/4 cup pineapple juice. It took about 2 hrs to cook and I basted every 15- 20 minutes. It was delicious. My whole family loved it.
It was delicious.  I used a over bag, which ended up tearing as I was trying to flip the ham every 15min.  I ended up taking it out of the bag and laying it in the pan (I used a disposable pan) along with the juice and used a spoon to pour the juice in the pan over the ham every 15min.  I used cloves, but I may leave those out next time.  Overall, delicious.  Put half in the freezer and will be eating the other half for lunch a couple days.  HAM SANDWICHES!!!
My go to baked ham. Excellent flavor
Good.  My go-to recipe for ham. Used honey and coconut sugar for the corn syrup.
